VIBHU BAKHRU, J 1. The present appeal has been filed by the appellant company under Section 10F of the Companies Act, 1956 challenging the order dated
10.12.2013 passed by the Company Law Board in CP No.192/2007
(hereinafter referred to as the 'impugned order'). By the impugned order,
the Company Law Board has dismissed an application being CA
No.12/C.No.1/2013, filed by the appellant company, inter alia, seeking
dismissal of the petition filed by the respondent no.1 under Section 397 and 398 of the Companies Act, 1956 being CP No.192/2007. The Companies
Act, 1956 is hereinafter referred to as the 'Act'. 2. The controversy that needs to be addressed in the present appeal is
whether the proceedings initiated by respondent no.1 before the Company Co. A (SB) 7/2014 Page 1 of 38 Law Board (hereinafter referred to as 'CLB') is maintainable in view of the
complaint filed by respondent no.1 before the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (hereinafter referred to as 'SEBI'). 3. The relevant facts in brief are as follows:- Pursuant thereto, the appellant company allotted 7,00,000 equity shares on Co. A (SB) 7/2014 Page 2 of 38 18.12.2007, 4,55,000 equity shares on 29.03.2008 and 9,45,000 equity
shares on 01.04.2008. 3.2 Respondent no. 1, which held 12.77% of the paid up share capital of
the appellant company as on 16.11.2007, filed various complaints, dated
01.02.2007, 13.12.2007 and 20.12.2007, before SEBI in relation to the
allotment of warrants being made to the promoters of the company in
violation of the provisions of the statutory guidelines and regulations
framed by virtue of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (hereinafter referred to as the ' SEBI Act '). The said complaints were
dismissed by SEBI, on 20.06.2008. Aggrieved by the order dated
20.06.2008, respondent no.1 challenged the same before the Securities
Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as the 'SAT') in Appeal
No.96/2008. By an order dated 01.07.2009, SAT remanded the matter back
to SEBI for reconsideration and for passing a reasoned order. 3.3 Thereafter, SEBI considered the matter afresh and passed a reasoned
order dated 31.03.2011 whereby the complaint filed by respondent no.1,
was dismissed. Being aggrieved by the order dated 31.03.2011, respondent
no.1 filed an appeal before SAT (Appeal No.86/2011) impugning the order
dated 31.03.2011 passed by SEBI. SAT dismissed the said appeal, by an
order dated 25.04.2012. Respondent no.1 filed an appeal (Civil Appeal
No.5891/2012) before the Supreme Court against the order dated
25.04.2012 passed by SAT. The said appeal was admitted by the Supreme
Court on 26.09.2012. 3.4 Respondent no. 1 also filed a Civil Suit (CS (OS) No.2011/2008)
before this Court challenging final accounts of the appellant company,
alleging failure on part of the management and the statutory auditors to
reflect a true and fair view of the company's accounts and thereby failing to
comply with the requirements of Sections 209 , 210 , 211 , 215 , 217 , 219 and 227 of the Act. The Appellant filed an application under Order VII Rule 11
of the CPC (being I.A. No.12820/2008) for rejection of plaint on the
ground that the suit was in the nature of a petition for oppression and
mismanagement of the affairs of the appellant company and therefore, the
jurisdiction of the civil court was impliedly barred under the provisions of
the Act. By an order dated 25.08.2009, this Court allowed the said
application and rejected the plaint. The appeal preferred by respondent no.1
before a Division Bench of this Court was also dismissed. 3.5 On 21.11.2007, respondent no. 1 filed a petition (CP No.192/2007)
under Section 397 & 398 of the Act before the CLB inter alia seeking that
the notice dated 18.10.2007 calling for the postal ballot and the issuance of
7,00,000 preferential warrants be declared as null and void. The respondent
no.1 also prayed for the interim relief, however, the same was declined by
the CLB on 27.11.2007. An appeal (Co.A (SB) No.44/2007) preferred
against the said order was also dismissed by this Court on 01.02.2008.
Subsequently, after the dismissal of the above said civil suit (CS (OS)
No.2011/2008), respondent no.1 filed applications before the CLB in the
CP No.192/2007 (being CA No.448/2009 for the amendment of the
company petition and CA No.449/2009 for impleadment of parties).
Subsequent thereto, the appellant filed an application seeking dismissal of Co. A (SB) 7/2014 Page 4 of 38 the company petition as well as the application for the amendment of the
petition. The said application was dismissed by the CLB by the impugned
order. Aggrieved by the dismissal of the said application, the appellant has
filed the present appeal. Submissions of the Appellant 4. It is contended by the learned counsel for the appellant that the
proceedings before the CLB are not maintainable in view of the fact that
the grievances raised by respondent no.1 before the CLB are similar to the
grievances raised by respondent no.1 in the proceedings initiated before
SEBI. It is contended that respondent no.1 had challenged before SEBI the
decision of the appellant company to allot preferential warrants on grounds
that were similar to those raised before the CLB. The grievance of
respondent no.1 had been addressed and adjudicated by SEBI. The appeal
filed before SAT had also been disposed of. Respondent no. 1 then pursued
an appeal before the Supreme Court against the order passed by SAT. It
was, therefore, submitted that the respondents were pursuing parallel
proceedings which was not permissible. The appellant contends that the
petition before the CLB and the proceedings before SEBI (and now the
appeal pending before the Supreme Court) were parallel proceedings and,
therefore, the petition before the CLB was not maintainable. 5. The learned counsel for the appellant has contended that the
complaints filed by the respondent before SEBI were not only with respect
to the allegations that the appellant had contravened provisions of various
statutory guidelines, regulations and provisions of the SEBI Act but also Co. A (SB) 7/2014 Page 5 of 38 included averments which, in effect, were in the nature of alleging
mismanagement and oppression in the conduct of affairs of the company as
contemplated under Sections 397 & 398 of the Act. It is urged that since the
respondent had pursued those averments before SEBI, the respondents were
disentitled from urging similar contentions before CLB. The learned
counsel further contended that although, the averments made by the
respondent before SEBI had been contested on the ground that SEBI did
not have any jurisdiction to entertain such pleas and the appropriate forum
to agitate the matter would be CLB, the same would not disentitle the
appellant from contending that the petition before the CLB was not
maintainable. It is submitted that the respondent was aware that SEBI
lacked the jurisdiction to adjudicate whether the affairs of the appellant
company were mismanaged or were carried on in a manner oppressive to
the minority shareholders, yet the respondent had taken its chance and
contested the matter before SEBI. Thus, the respondent could not re-agitate
similar issues before the CLB. 6. It is contended by the learned counsel for the appellant that the
proceedings before the CLB are an abuse of process of law as respondent
no.1 had agitated its grievance before SEBI and was now inviting findings
and seeking adjudication in respect of the very same transaction/instances
before the CLB. It was contended that since the proceedings before the
CLB amounted to re-litigation, the same were an abuse of process of law. In support of the above contentions, the appellant has relied upon the
judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of K.K. Modi v. K.N. Modi : 7. It is submitted by the learned counsel for the appellant that the
respondent no.1 filed various complaints before SEBI against the allotment
of the preferential warrants and SEBI has also adjudicated the complaint
thereby rejecting any allegation against the said allotment. It is contended
that the principle of estoppel is also applicable in the facts of the present
case and respondent no. 1 is estopped from challenging the said allotment
before the CLB on similar grounds. It is submitted that the legality of the
allotment of warrants is subject matter of the appeal pending before the
Supreme Court and cannot be pursued before the CLB. Submissions on behalf of the respondents 8. It is contended by the learned counsel for the answering respondent
that the proceedings before the CLB and before SEBI are independent of
each other. It was submitted that although the facts stated in both the
proceedings are common, however, the grounds raised and the relief
claimed before both the fora are independent, separate and distinct. The
parties before both the fora are also different. It is contended that the
jurisdiction of the CLB is confined to adjudicate whether the affairs of a
company are being mismanaged or being conducted in a manner oppressive
to any shareholder(s) of the company. While SEBI has the exclusive
jurisdiction to adjudicate any complaint with regard to the violations of the
statutory guidelines, regulations and provisions of the SEBI Act , the
jurisdiction of the CLB extends to the manner in which affairs of a
company are conducted. The respondent has relied upon the decision of the
Bombay High Court in the case of Kesha Appliances P. Ltd. And Ors. v.
Royal Holdings Services Ltd. and Ors. : (2006) 130 Comp Cas 227 (Bom) Co. A (SB) 7/2014 Page 7 of 38 in support of its contention that SEBI would have the exclusive jurisdiction
in relation to violation of the provisions of the SEBI Act and other statutory
guidelines and regulations framed thereunder. 9. It is contented that although the proceedings before SEBI were
initiated on similar set of facts, however, the nature and scope of those
proceedings were not similar and identical to the proceedings before the
CLB, and therefore, both the proceedings before SEBI as well as CLB
could be pursued concurrently. In support of this contention, the counsel for
the respondent has relied upon the judgment of the Calcutta High Court in
the case of Dharam Godha & Ors. v. Universal Paper Mills Ltd. & Ors. : 10. It is contended that the proceedings before the CLB are different in
nature and even if the complaint filed before SEBI has been dismissed, the
same has no bearing on the adjudication of the proceedings before the CLB.
The outcome of the proceedings before the CLB is different and is not
dependent on the outcome of the proceedings before SEBI. It is submitted
that some acts of the company may amount to violation of statutory rules
and regulations and SEBI Act , however, the same may not necessarily
amount to the acts of oppression and mismanagement. Conversely, a series
of acts may amount to oppression and mismanagement, even though the
same are legal. In support of this contention, the respondent placed reliance
on the judgment of the Supreme Court passed in the case of Needle
Industries (India) Ltd. and Ors. v. Needle Industries Newey (India)
Holding Ltd. and Ors. : (1981) 3 SCC 333. 11. It is submitted that several remedies may be available to a party
under different statutes from the same set of facts and if the remedies are
neither repugnant nor inconsistent with each other nor mutually exclusive,
then in such circumstances, recourse to any one of them, in whichever
sequence, would not bar taking recourse to the other remedy(ies). In
support of this submission, the counsel for the respondent has placed
reliance on Shonkh Technologies Ltd. v. Union of India and other: (2008)
85 CLA 351 (Del. ), Union of India v. Information Technologies : (2009)
151 Comp Cas 337 (CLB), Bharat Overseas Bank Ltd. v. Saritha
Synthetic and Industries Ltd.: ( 2004) 120 Comp Cas 419 (AP), Aar Kay
Concast Ltd. v. Reliance capital Ltd.: ( 2011) 164 Comp Cas 409 (P&H),
Golden Menthol Export Pvt. Limited v. Sheba Wheels (P) Ltd. : 2007(2)
GLT 47. Reasoning and Conclusion 12. I have heard the learned counsel for the parties. The principal
controversy that arises in the present case is whether the respondent is
disentitled to pursue the petition before the CLB on account of the
respondent having preferred complaints before SEBI in relation to the
allotment of preferential warrants by the appellant company. In order to
address the controversy raised in the present appeal, it is necessary to
examine the scope of inquiry before SEBI and the scope of proceedings
before the CLB. It is also necessary to examine the complaints made by
respondent no.1 before SEBI and the appellate proceedings emanating from
the decision rendered by SEBI. 13. The respondent made various complaints to SEBI alleging that
7,00,000 warrants issued by the appellant company to its promoters were in
violation of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997, (hereinafter
referred to as the 'Takeover Regulations'), Securities and Exchange Board
of India (Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000 (hereinafter
referred to as the 'DIP Guidelines'), Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to
Securities Markets) Regulations, 2003, (hereinafter referred to as the
'PFUTP Regulations'), The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (hereinafter referred to as the 'SCRA'), SEBI Act and Listing Agreement
with BSE. 14. The relevant portion of the complaint dated 03.11.2007 made by the
respondent no. 1 to the SEBI is extracted hereinbelow:- 15. The relevant portion of the complaint dated 01.12.2007 made by the
respondent no. 1 to the SEBI is extracted hereinbelow:- 4. This is in clear violation of Regulation 11 of the SEBI
 Takeover Code which prohibits any acquirer who,
 together with persons acting in concert with him, acquires
 additional shares or voting rights entitling him to exercise
 more than 5% of the voting rights in any financial year,
 from making such acquisition without making a public
 announcement in terms of the SEBI Takeover Code. The
 Promoters/Promoter Group/PAC have in the instant case
 not made the public announcement. It is pertinent to note
 that under the definition of "shares" in the SEBI
 Takeover Code, the same would include warrants which
 have underlying shares. 5. Moreover, it is brought to your notice that the issuance of
 warrants on 30.11.2007 is also in violation of Regulation
 23 of the Takeover Code. On 19.11.2007 Our Client had
 made a Public Announcement in terms of Regulations 10
 and 14(1) of the SEBI Takeover Code. The Offer Price as
 it stands today is Rs. 120/- per share as notified on
 29.11.2007. Regulation 23(1)(b) clearly states that the
 board of directors of the target company shall not, during
 the offer period issue or allot any authorized but unissued
 securities carrying voting rights. The date of closure of Co. A (SB) 7/2014 Page 11 of 38 the Offer made by Our Client is 24.01.2007. However, as
 stated above, the Company has proceed to allot 7 lakh
 share warrants, the warrant holders have paid for and
 exercised their option to receive the underlying equity
 shares, the Company has further approached the Bombay
 Stock Exchange for approval to issue and list the first
 batch of underlying shares. The issuance of warrants as
 well as the proposal to issue the underlying equity shares
 is a dear violation on the part of the Company of Regulation 23 . 6. It is also pertinent to note that the Directors of the
 Company have failed to provide the shareholders with all
 the relevant material information as required by S. 173
 and the SEBI Disclosure and Investor Protection
 Guidelines 2000. This includes: 7. We therefore call upon you to investigate into the matter
 and restrain the Company from listing the securities
 underlying the warrants (which are fully paid up) on the
 Stock Exchange, direct the Company and/or the NSDL
 and CDSL, to cancel the shares, direct the Company Co. A (SB) 7/2014 Page 12 of 38 and/or the NSDL and CDSL, not to give effect to the
 issue/allotment and not to permit the Promoters/Promoter
 Group/PAC to exercise any voting or other rights
 attached to such shares." 16. In addition, SEBI also considered the Memorandum of Appeal
No.96/2008 filed by respondent no. 1 before the SAT, whereby respondent
no.1 had also alleged that the allotment of the warrants is a sham
transaction to increase the promoters holding in the appellant company. It
was alleged that the appellant company offloaded 50.02% of the
shareholding in Versa Trading Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary
company, (hereinafter referred to as 'VTL') to three entities namely, AKS
International, RPG Securities and Indus Netlink at 10 paise per share in the
year 2002. In 2007, appellant company offloaded remaining 49.98% of the
shareholding in VTL to DCM Hyundai Ltd. It was further alleged that the
appellant company converted the debt amounting to `7 crores payable by
VTL to the appellant company into redeemable non-cumulative preference
shares. The appellant company had written off debt amounting to more than
`100 crores due and payable by both the companies to the appellant
company. In the year 2007, the appellant company allotted 6.9 lakh
warrants amounting to `18.63 crores to VTL. It was pointed out that in this
manner, the appellant company had transferred funds to VTL and DCM
Hyundai Ltd. and subsequently those companies were used by the
promoters to subscribe warrants issued by the appellant company.
Therefore, it was alleged that the allotment of warrants was a sham
transaction and was in violation to various regulations, guidelines and the SEBI Act . 17. SEBI examined the complaints of the respondent no.1 with regard to
the allegations of the violations of the guidelines, regulations and SEBI
Act . The same is evident from Para 6 of the order dated 31.03.2011 and the
same is extracted hereinbelow:- The Hon'ble High Court while dismissing had observed "Here
 the Plaintiff first approached the CLB and failed to obtain any
 interim relief. It cannot be permitted to approach the civil court
 seeking the same relief as that would encourage forum
 shopping and constitute an abuse of the process of law...
 Having carefully, examined the plaint as well as the averments
 made in the petition before the CLB, as further sought to be
 amended by the subsequent application, it appears to this Court
 that the grounds on which the relief is being sought for are
 more or less similar to what has been sought in the CLB...". It
 was also informed that the petition filed by HB before the CLB
 is pending. On appeal, the Division Bench of the Delhi High
 Court had declined to interfere in the matter. As it has been
 informed that the matter is pending before the Hon'ble CLB,
 the issue is sub-judice. SEBI would as a regulator, intervene
 only when the interests of the shareholders are in any manner
 adversely affected because of the acts of the company. As in the
 present matter, the shareholders have voted in majority for the
 allotment of warrants to the promoter group on preferential
 basis, SEBI would have no adverse remarks on the mode
 adopted by the company for mobilising capital for its working Co. A (SB) 7/2014 Page 15 of 38 needs. As regards the offer of the complainant to subscribe to
 the warrants at a price of `120/- per share as against the price of
 `90/-, I would refrain from recording my observations here, as
 according to the company, the same is pending adjudication by
 the Hon'ble CLB." 19. SEBI examined and adjudicated the allegations with regard to the
violations of the DIP Guidelines, Takeover Regulations, PFUTP
Regulations and the provisions of the SEBI Act and dismissed the
complaints filed by respondent no. 1. SEBI also held that in absence of any
material to support the allegations of fraud, it was not possible to arrive at
an adverse inference on the conduct of the company in offloading the
shares of VTL. The conclusions arrived at by SEBI reads as under:- iv. The company cannot be faulted for raising capital
 through preferential allotment of warrants overlooking a
 rights issue. The said mode was a decision of the
 company and the shareholders had voted in majority.
 v. The alleged violation of Regulation 23 of the Takeover
 Regulations is not found as the company has issued
 equity shares underlying the warrants which are in line
 with the terms of the explanation to the said provision.
 As regards the allegation that the company has entered
 into material contracts and encumbered its assets, the
 same is rejected on the basis of the submissions of the
 company, as mentioned above and also for want of
 material to support such a charge. vi. There is no contravention of clause 13.3.1(f) of the DIP
 Guidelines as the allottees of warrants were holding
 shares of the company in dematerialised form. Further,
 the violation of other provisions of the DIP Guidelines as
 alleged by the complainant is also not substantiated for
 the reasons stated in this Order. vii. BSE has granted in-principle approval for the issue of
 equity shares (underlying the impugned warrants). The
 shareholders of the company have approved the
 preferential allotment to six of the persons/entities of the
 promoter group. No violation of the provisions of the
 Listing Agreement as alleged in the appeal memorandum
 and also Section 21 of the SCRA could be inferred. 43. In view of the foregoing, I am of the considered view that
 the findings and observations made in this Order with respect to
 the allegations made by the complainant in its memorandum of
 appeal do not call for any regulatory intervention by the
 Securities and Exchange Board of India in the matter." 20. It is clear from the above that SEBI exercised its statutory
jurisdiction. It is also clear from the above that respondent no. 1 took a
stand before SEBI that the action of the appellant company in issuing
warrants to its promoters, to the exclusion of other shareholders, was in
violation of the Takeover Regulations, DIP Guidelines, Listing Agreements
and PFUTP Regulations. 21. Aggrieved by the decision of SEBI, the respondent preferred an
appeal (Appeal no.86/2011) before SAT on the ground that SEBI has failed
to investigate and examine the violations of the DIP Guidelines, Takeover
Regulations, PFUTP Regulations and the provisions of the SEBI Act . A
preliminary objection was raised by the appellant with regard to the
maintainability of the said appeal. SAT decided the preliminary objection
in favour of the appellant and by an order dated 25.04.2012, dismissed the
said appeal on the ground that the order dated 31.03.2011 does not
adversely affect the rights of the respondent and is not an appealable order
within the meaning of Section 15T of the SEBI Act. SAT also observed that Co. A (SB) 7/2014 Page 18 of 38 the respondent was not remediless as respondent was pursuing its remedies
before the CLB. 22. Aggrieved by the findings arrived at by SAT, the respondent
preferred an appeal before the Supreme Court, inter alia, on the ground that
SAT erred in ignoring that SEBI's function under the SEBI Act are for
investor protection and regulation of the securities market and dealing with
allegations with regard to the violation of the SEBI Act and the Regulations
framed thereunder and public interest issues. Respondent no.1 has also
challenged the order passed by SAT on the ground that the "scope and
ambit of the proceedings and findings of SEBI and that of the Company
Law Board under section 397 and 398 of the Companies Act are distinct".
And, that the statutory violations of the SEBI Act and various regulations
framed by SEBI falls squarely within the domain of SEBI and SAT and
cannot be adjudicated by the CLB. The appeal preferred before the
Supreme Court is still pending for consideration. 23. The petition filed by respondent no.1 before the CLB (CP
No.192/2007) is under Section 397 / 398 of the Act inter alia seeking that
the notice dated 18.10.2007 calling for the postal ballot and the issuance of
7,00,000 preferential warrants be declared as null and void. It has been
alleged by respondent no. 1 that the issuance of 7,00,000 preferential
warrants was not with intent to augment the long term working capital of
the company but to increase the holding of the promoters in the appellant
company. It was contended that the company could have issued
shares/warrants on rights basis which would allow the participation of all
the shareholders in the increase of the capital of the company, however, the Co. A (SB) 7/2014 Page 19 of 38 warrants were allotted to the promoters to the exclusion of other
shareholders and at a price below the price offered by respondent no.1. It
was further contended that the affairs of the company were being conducted
in a manner oppressive to the minority shareholders and prejudicial to the
interest of the company. The relevant extracts of the said company petition
which indicate the nature of allegations made by respondent no. 1 are
quoted hereinbelow:- August 2007 from banks/ financial institutions. (ii) There is no bona fide purpose to issue the warrants. Time and again the Respondents have changed their
 stance as to the exact purpose for which the Company
 required "urgent" funds, which is a change in the
 objects of the issue. If there was a genuine
 requirement of funds by the Respondent No. I
 Company and Versa and DCM Hyundai were in a
 position to repay the outstanding dues that the two companies admittedly owe the Respondent No. 1 Company, it was incumbent on the Respondent No. 1
 Company to collect the amounts as repayment of dues
 and thereby satisfy the Respondent No. 1 Company's
 requirement for funds rather than opt for a
 preferential allotment of warrants which in turn
 involved additional time and expenditure. (iii) The Explanatory Statement to the Notice dated
 18.10.2007 to shareholders did not contain material
 particulars as required by S. 173 of the Companies
 Act. The above facts were never disclosed to the
 shareholders and therefore the Notice was defective
 and the allotment merits to be set aside on this
 ground alone. (iv) The Respondents have undertaken this exercise solely
 for their own benefit and have stated a false and Co. A (SB) 7/2014 Page 22 of 38 misleading purpose in the Notice to shareholders
 dated 18.10.2007. (v) The Respondents have gone against the requirement
 of S. 81 of the Companies Act which provides that the
 Company must ordinarily raise money only by way of
 a Rights Issue. (vi) The Respondents have kept the shareholders in the
 dark with respect to the revisions in the price at
 which the shares are to be allotted. (vii) The Respondent changed the terms of the allotment,
 the full amount became payable upfront. (viii) The Respondents went ahead with the issue and
 allotment of warrants at Rs. 90/- on 30.11.2007 when
 an offer of Rs. 120/- was made to the Directors of the
 Respondent No. 1 Company by the Petitioner on
 29.11.2007. (ix) Rs. 18.9 crores was raised by the preferential issue
 despite the fact as per the Board Resolution dated
 16.10.2007 approving the preferential issue, the
 Company only required Rs. 9-10 crores. The
 Respondent No. 1 Company ought to have reduced
 the number of warrants issued. (x) The Company wholly deviated from the period of
 conversion / allotment of shares for the second and
 third tranches of equity shares. (xi) The Company deviated in terms of the number of
 shares to be allotted in each financial year, viz. from
 7 lakh shares each per financial year over three
 years, to 11.55 lakh and 9.45 lakh shares over two
 financial years only. (xii) No individual notices were sent to the shareholders
 regarding these changes. (xiii) The Respondents accepted a Letter of Intent from
 Versa Trading Ltd. on 16.10.2007 when the necessary
 statutory approval of shareholders of Versa Trading
 Ltd. was not obtained under S. 372A until 15.11.2007. (xiv) The Respondents issued and allotted warrants to
 Versa Trading Ltd. despite being aware that Versa
 was not authorized by its MOA to do so. Similarly,
 DCM Hyundai Ltd. is also not authorized by its MOA
 to make the investments and thus could not have made
 the alleged investment of Rs. 20 crores in Versa
 Trading Ltd. Further, DCM Hyundai has not obtained
 the shareholders approval under S. 372A as required
 by the Companies Act for investing in versa. (xv) The Respondents issued and allotted warrants to
 Versa Trading Ltd. despite being aware that Versa
 was barred from doing so due to a direction issued by
 the RBI which prohibited it from making such an
 investment. (xvi) The Respondents issued and allotted warrants to
 Versa Trading Ltd. for Rs. 18.63 crores despite
 having outstanding dues of Rs. 7.8 crores. Instead the
 Company has written of investments and loans of over
 Rs. 12 crores in Versa and have allegedly converted
 Rs. 7 cores of the Rs. 7.8 crore outstanding loan into
 preference capital. Respondent No. 1's Balance Sheet
 for the FY 2007-2008 shows that this 'investment' of
 Rs. 7 crores has also been entirely written off. (xvii) The facts placed on record show that in fact Versa
 Trading Ltd. is a subsidiary of the Respondent No. 1
 Company. The Boards of Directors of the two
 companies are working in tandem. Versa Trading Ltd.
 was in the knowledge of information held by the
 Board of Directors of the Respondent no. 1 prior to
 the time when it was made public. (xviii) The facts also show that the Respondent No. 1
 Company has waived off dues of Rs. 75 crores owed
 from DCM Hyundai Ltd. in addition to (a) reducing
 its equity shareholding by Rs. 10.01.crores, (b)
 converting loans of an amount of Rs. 13.71 crores
 into equity and convertible preference shares, and (c)
 having outstanding loan amount of Rs. 800 lakh, and
 at the same time allowed it to invest Rs. 20 crores in
 Versa Trading Ltd. In fact, during the FY ending
 31.03.2008, the Respondent No. 1 loaned further
 sums to DCM Hyundai and in total was to receive
 outstanding sums of Rs.1391.94 lakhs (increased from
 Rs.800 lakhs as at 31.03.2007). The facts show that
 DCM Hyundai is also a subsidiary of the Respondent
 No. 1 Company. (xix) The facts show that over Rs. 100 crores has been
 written off/ waived by the Respondent No. 1 Company
 in DCM Hyundai Ltd. and Versa Trading Ltd.. In
 addition, the Respondent No. 1 Company borrows
 huge sums of money from Banks thereby burdening
 the Company and its shareholders. Over the past ten
 years the Respondent No. 1 Company has only once
 declared a dividend and that of 10%. This is gross
 financial mismanagement and prejudicial to the
 interests of the Company and its shareholders. (xx) The haste of declaring approving and allotting the
 warrants shares between 9a.m. and 10 a.m. on
 30.11.2007 despite the hearing before the Hon'ble
 high Court being scheduled for the same day, shows
 the mala fide intentions of the Respondents. Moreover, the facts show that moneys had not been
 received by the Company at the time of allotment
 whereas the Company filed false affidavits before the
 Hon'ble High Court as well as this Hon'ble CLB. (xxi) The Respondent No.1 Company has violated statutory
 norms of S. 192A and the Postal Ballot Rules 2001 in
 the conduct of the ballot. (xxii) The Directors have grossly violated their fiduciary
 duties towards the Company and the shareholders." 24. It is clear from above that the allegations made by respondent no.1 in
the company petition filed before the CLB not only alleged violation of
statutory guidelines and regulations framed under the SEBI Act but also
alleged lack of probity in the conduct of the affairs of the company. 25. SEBI exercises its statutory jurisdiction to protect the interests of
investors in securities and to deal with the violations of the Takeover
Regulations, DIP Guidelines, Listing Agreements, PFUTP Regulations and
other statutory guidelines and regulations. The SEBI Act provides complete
mechanism for redressal of grievances to protect the interests of investors
in securities. It is indisputable that any complaint with regard to the
aforesaid violations can only be made before SEBI and no suit or other
proceedings in that regard can be initiated. Section 15Y of the SEBI Act
bars the jurisdiction of the civil court to entertain any suit or proceeding in
respect of any matter which an Adjudicating Officer, appointed under the SEBI Act or SAT constituted under the said Act, is empowered by or under
the SEBI Act to determine and adjudicate. The powers exercised by the
CLB and the powers exercised by SEBI fall in different and distinct
jurisdictional fields. 26. Chapter VI of the Act contains provisions for prevention of
Oppression and Mismanagement. Whilst Section 397 of the Act relates to Co. A (SB) 7/2014 Page 26 of 38 Oppression, Section 398 relates to Mismanagement. The provisions of said
Sections are relevant and are quoted below:- 27. The powers conferred upon the CLB under the aforesaid Sections are
very wide. In matters where the CLB is of the opinion that the affairs of the
company are being conducted in a manner prejudicial to public interest or
in a manner oppressive to its members, the CLB has the power to make
such orders as it thinks fit with a view to bring to an end the matters
complained of. For a conduct of affairs to be oppressive to any member or
members of a company, it must be shown that the conduct is burdensome,
harsh and wrongful. It has been held that oppression must involve at least
an element of lack of probity or fair dealing with a member in the matter of
his propriety rights as a shareholder. In the case of Shanti Prasad Jain v. Kalinga Tubes Ltd.: AIR 1965 SC 1535, the Supreme Court has held as
under:- 28. The language of Section 398 is also in wide terms. In the event that
the CLB finds that the affairs of the company have been conducted in a
manner prejudicial to public interest or in a manner prejudicial to the
interest of the company, the CLB has the power to pass such orders to bring
to an end the matters complained of. The CLB also has powers to prevent
matters that are apprehended. 29. The powers of the CLB, under Section 397-398 of the Act, are not
only curative but also preventive. 30. Sections 397 & 398 have been drafted on the basis of Section 210 of
the English Companies Act, 1948. Sections 397-398 of the Act are intended
to provide a remedy to the shareholders of the company in cases where the
affairs of the company are being conducted in a manner which is
burdensome or harsh to the shareholders or where the affairs of the
company are conducted in a manner which is prejudicial to public interest,
interest of the company or interest of certain shareholders. It is settled law
that mere illegal or invalid acts would not constitute 'Oppression'. Any act
which is in violation of any provisions of law by itself will not necessarily
be oppressive or prejudicial to the interest of any member of members of
the company. It is well settled that an act may be illegal or unlawful and yet
may not be construed as oppressive. On the other hand, the affairs of the
company may be conducted strictly in accordance with law, yet the same
may still be oppressive. This has been explained by the Supreme Court in
the case of Needle Industries (India) Ltd. (supra). There are several cases
where majority shareholders of a company have used their voting power to
carry through decisions which may be prejudicial to the minority
shareholders and in some cases prejudicial to the majority shareholders of
the company. The provisions of Section 397-398 are also intended to
readdress such situations. 31. It is clear from the above that the scope of Sections 397-398 of the
Act is different from the scope of provisions of the SEBI Act and the
guidelines and regulations made in exercise of the powers conferred under
the said Act. This distinction must be borne in mind while examining the
controversy raised in the present appeal. 32. The contentions urged by the appellant must be examined in view of
the above. First of all, the contention that respondent no.1 is pursuing
"parallel proceedings" must be considered. The expression "Parallel
Proceedings" has not been defined. However, the expression has been used
in a sense to describe a set of proceedings that a litigant is proscribed to
pursue simultaneously. Such set of proceedings either includes proceedings
that are identical in effect or a set of proceedings that are inherently
inconsistent so as a pursuit of one, negates the other. In the former case, the
proceedings must be similar at least in three respects: 1) the parties, 2) the
issues involved and 3) the relief claimed. In cases where proceedings are
similar in these material aspects, it is obvious that the result of one would
render the others meaningless. In such circumstances permitting parallel
proceedings would amount to permitting meaningless litigation. The
expression "Parallel proceedings" must mean a set of proceedings which
are pursued for identical reliefs, are based on the same cause of action and
the subject matter of the disputes is similar. However, if the issues involved
and the relief available in the proceedings are not substantially identical, the
proceedings cannot be considered as parallel proceedings. The Calcutta
High Court in Dharam Godha & Ors. v. Universal Paper Mills Ltd. &
Ors. : (2012) 172 Comp Cas 169, has explained the meaning of parallel
proceedings as under:- 33. I wholly concur with the above view of the Calcutta High Court.
There is another set of circumstances where parallel proceedings are not
permissible and those are cases where the remedies sought under a set of
proceedings are inconsistent. In such circumstances, the party pursuing the
remedies must elect a remedy that it seeks to pursue to the exclusion of the
other. Parallel proceedings in separate fora for the same relief would not be
permissible if the same are inconsistent with each other. However, in cases
where the nature of challenge is materially different, there would be no bar
for a litigant to pursue concurrent remedies. The doctrine of election pre-
supposes that there is choice of remedies which are inconsistent in
character and therefore, a party has to elect one to the exclusion of the
other. The Supreme Court in the case of Transcore v. Union of India : 34. The rationale underlying the doctrine of election of remedies is that
in cases of inconsistent remedies pursuing one would be inherently
destructive of the other. The above principle has been explained in
American Jurisprudence Second Edition, (Vol 25 page 653) as under:- 35. The litigant must elect its position in law and is permitted to only
pursue those proceedings, which are available to him in conformity with the
position elected by him. In that sense inconsistency of remedies is
essentially repugnancy in the set of facts and averments required for
seeking the different remedies. If a set of facts, which are relied upon in aid
of one remedy is repugnant to the set of facts necessary to seek the other
remedy, then pursuing the two proceedings would be impermissible. As a
matter of illustration, a landlord may take a position that the premises
leased by him are covered under rent control legislation and he would thus
be entitled to proceed against the tenant before a specialized tribunal. If he
so elects, he would not be entitled to maintain a suit against the tenant,
which is premised on the basis that the leased premises in question is
outside the rent control legislation. The principle that a litigant must not be
allowed to pursue parallel proceedings, pre-supposes that the existence of
one is repugnant to the existence of other. However, this principle would
have no application in cases where the nature of proceedings is entirely
different. The doctrine of election of remedies will not apply where the
remedies are concurrent or cumulative. Pursuing remedies for enforcement
of distinct rights and redressing different wrongs, concurrently or in Co. A (SB) 7/2014 Page 33 of 38 whichever sequence, are not impermissible. Remedies will not be
inconsistent merely because the same set of facts and averments are relied
upon. The doctrine of election of remedies will have no application in such
cases. 36. In the present case, the respondent has approached SEBI in relation
to a set of facts which is contended to indicate violation of the SEBI Act ,
Take Over Regulations, PFUTP and DIP Guidelines. It is also contended by
the respondent that the affairs of the company are conducted in a manner
which are oppressive to its shareholders and prejudicial to the interest of the
company. The fact that some of the acts complained of may also violate the SEBI Act or Regulations made thereunder would not prevent the
respondent from pursuing the remedies under Sections 397 and 398 of the
Act. To hold otherwise would mean that the respondent has to elect
whether he can complain against statutory violations under the SEBI Act or
initiate proceedings under Sections 397-398 of the Act. The two
proceedings as discussed are completely different in their nature and
occupy a different and distinct jurisdictional field. I am unable to accept
that the two proceedings are mutually exclusive. 37. The second contention that requires to be considered is whether the
proceedings filed by respondent no. 1 are an abuse of process of law. The
appellant has contended that the fact that respondent no. 1 had urged certain
contentions before SEBI and the SAT, which were in the nature of
complaints alleging mismanagement and oppression in the conduct of
affairs of the appellant company, would amount to re-litigation and render
the proceedings before the CLB an abuse of process of law. I am unable to Co. A (SB) 7/2014 Page 34 of 38 appreciate this contention. Apparently, respondent no.1 is aggrieved on
account of the manner in which the affairs of the appellant company are
conducted, whether his grievance is legitimate or not is a separate question.
However, indisputably, respondent no. 1 has the right to agitate his
grievances with regard to the alleged mismanagement and oppression in the
conduct of the affairs of the company, before the CLB. The fact that he has
filed a complaint before SEBI would not in any manner render the
proceedings before the CLB as an abuse of process of law. At this stage, it
is also relevant to note that the appellant had contended before SEBI and
the SAT that the appropriate forum for respondent no.1 to ventilate its
grievance was the CLB. The appellant had also persuaded SEBI and the
SAT to refrain from considering certain contentions on the ground that the
subject disputes were pending before the CLB. The appellant had also
persuaded the High Court to reject the plaint filed by respondent no.1 inter
alia on the ground that the CLB would have the jurisdiction to consider the
disputes. By an order dated 25.05.2010 passed in RFA(OS) 109/2009, a
division bench of this Court had clarified that the issues sought to be raised
by respondent no. 1 in the suit were permitted to be raised by the
respondent before the CLB. The appellant is now attempting to prevent the
disputes from being considered before the CLB on the ground that similar
disputes had been agitated before SEBI. In my view, this conduct of the
appellant is clearly questionable. The appellant cannot be allowed to
approbate and reprobate. The application filed before the CLB as well as
the present appeal are clearly an attempt on the part of the appellant to
delay and avoid adjudication of the disputes raised by respondent no.1. As
discussed above, the remedy before SEBI and the CLB are not mutually Co. A (SB) 7/2014 Page 35 of 38 exclusive but are cumulative. Thus, no fault can be found with respondent
no.1 in pursuing the said proceedings. 38. The reliance placed by the appellant on the decision in the case of K.K. Modi v. K.N. Modi (supra) is also misplaced. In the said case, the
plaintiffs therein had filed an arbitration petition under Section 33 of the
Arbitration Act, 1940 challenging the decision of the Chairman and
Managing Director of IFCI on the basis that the said decision was an
arbitration award. The plaintiffs simultaneously also filed a suit challenging
the very same decision which was impugned in the arbitration petition. The
suit was filed on the basis that impugned decision was not an arbitration
award. This was a clear case of inconsistent remedies. If the decision of the
Chairman and Managing Director of IFCI Ltd. was considered as an
arbitration award, the suit filed by the plaintiff was barred. However, if the
said decision was not considered as an award, then the arbitration petition
was not maintainable. The plaintiffs had attempted to thus pursue parallel
proceedings. Furthermore, the plaintiffs had obtained an interim injunction
in the arbitration proceedings and on vacation of the same had obtained an
injunction in the suit. It is in these facts that the learned Single Judge of
this High Court came to a conclusion that the proceedings were an abuse of
process of law and struck down the plaint under Order 6 Rule XVI of the
Code of Civil Procedure and dismissed the suit. The learned Single Judge
also dismissed the application for interim relief in the arbitration petition.
The Supreme Court considered the facts and held that the perception of the
learned Single Judge was substantially correct though not entirely so. The
appeal from the decision of the learned Single Judge to strike down the Co. A (SB) 7/2014 Page 36 of 38 plaint was partly allowed and the Supreme Court clarified that to the extent
that the suit raised an alternative independent plea, it would not be
considered as re-litigation of the same issue or an abuse of process of law.
The said decision of the Supreme Court also clearly indicates that the
endeavour of the Courts have always been to ensure that litigants are not
deprived from availing remedies that are available for the wrong alleged by
them. 39. It was contended by the appellant that the respondent no.1 was also
barred from pursuing the petition before the CLB on the principle of 'issue
estoppel'. It, prima facie, appears that apart from the conclusion that the SEBI Act and the statutory regulations and guidelines framed thereunder
have not been violated, it is doubtful whether any other observations made
by SEBI would preclude respondent no.1 from ventilating his grievance
before the CLB. The order dated 25.04.2012 passed by SAT seems to imply
that respondent no.1 is at liberty to agitate all his grievances before the
CLB. Even if it is assumed that any question raised before the CLB is
concluded between the parties in proceedings before SEBI, the same would
not prevent respondent no.1 from pursuing its petition before the CLB. It is
not necessary for this Court to decide whether any grievance raised by
respondent no.1 before the CLB is barred by the principles of issue estoppel
and it will be open for the parties to place their contentions with respect to
this aspect before the CLB. And, the CLB shall consider the same in
accordance with law. 40. Before concluding, I must add that the proceedings before the CLB
have been considerably delayed and have not progressed. In the Co. A (SB) 7/2014 Page 37 of 38 circumstances, I consider it appropriate to direct that the said proceedings
be concluded expeditiously and in any event not later than six months from
date. The parties will also not seek any adjournment and shall endeavour to
assist the CLB in the expeditious adjudication of the matter. 41. In view of the above, the present appeal is dismissed as being devoid
of any merit. The appellant shall also pay cost of `5,000/- to the respondent
no.1. VIBHU BAKHRU, J
APRIL 28, 2014
RK Co. A (SB) 7/2014 Page 38 of 38