1. This is an application for pre-arrest bail in connection with C.R.
 No.165 of 2023 registered with Chandan Nagar Police Station, Pune
 for offences punishable under Sections 409, 419, 420 read with Section 34 of Indian Penal Code, 1860. FIR is dated 21.04.2023 and
 it is filed against unknown person. 2. The allegations in the FIR is that in April 2023 the
 Complainant received a WhatsApp message from an unknown person
 offering a part-time job of giving 'likes' to videos, on the promise that
 commission will be paid. A link was sent to the Complainant. Certain
 videos were 'liked' by the Complainant and sent back. Thereafter, the
 unknown person asked the Complainant to visit a particular
 telegram-ID (telegram mobile app) and submit a code. On submission
 of the code, the Complainant was joined with a telegram group Sneha Chavan Page 1 of 12 ::: Uploaded on - 12/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 12/09/2025 23:28:04 ::: ABA-2561-23 C2.doc

 where the Complainants' bank details and personal details were
 asked and taken. The Complainant had received Rs. 150/- after liking
 videos. The Complainant was informed that he will have to complete
 20 tasks and will be paid commission per task. Out of these tasks,
 certain tasks were to be purchased. The Complainant was again
 contacted for completion of prepaid tasks and code was given. On
 submission of the code to an unknown lady on the telegram group,
 who asked the Complainant to invest Rs.10,000/-, the Complainant
 transferred the same in one Phone-pe account. The Complainant was
 asked to register on one unsecured website. The Complainant was
 informed that he will be contacted for further task and code was
 shared. This time, the Complainant was instructed to trade in Bitcoin
 using Rs.10,000/- and accordingly the Complainant traded and profit
 of Rs.3,000/- became visible on the said unsecured website. The
 complainant was assured that only he will be able to see the balance
 and profits and was encouraged to trade more in Bitcoin. The
 Complainant's bank account was then credited with Rs.13,000/-
 therefore he started believing and that is how his confidence was
 won. Thereafter, he was given further task and was asked to invest
 Rs.60,000/-. The Complainant thereafter followed the instructions
 and invested Rs.30,000/-, Rs.30,000/- & Rs.40,000/-. Next day on
 10.04.2023, the Complainant was asked to trade again in Bitcoin. He
 then invested Rs. 13 Lacs and traded further in Bitcoin, for which
 profit was visible on the same unsecured website. Thereafter, the
 Complainant was asked to transfer amounts to certain bank accounts.
 The Complainant has transferred over all amount Rs.23,24,400/-
 from his account and his friend's account (Mr. Rahul Wadekar), to
 seven different bank accounts, of which details are given in the FIR. ABA-2561-23 C2.doc

 Thereafter, when the Complainant asked as to when he will get his
 money back with profit, the unknown person started saying that he
 does not have money and the Complainant realized that he has been
 duped. Therefore, the FIR is filed. 3. According to prosecution, during investigation, inquiry was
 made and emails were sent to the banks in which the amount
 mentioned in the FIR was transferred. It revealed that certain
 amounts from the said bank account has been transferred in the bank
 account of the present Applicant. It further revealed that huge
 amount has been transferred in the bank account of present
 Applicant. When KYC documents of Applicant was obtained, the
 address of Rajasthan has emerged. It further surfaced that the bank
 account of the Applicant was not in operation from 3 years and small
 transactions were taking place upto April 2023. However, in April
 2023 there were transactions of Rs.3 crore in one week and that is
 how the Applicant was implicated. 4. Learned counsel Mr. Panicker appearing for the Applicant
 submitted as under. 4.1) That the Applicant is a practicing Chartered Accountant.
 At the relevant time he was dealing with Crypto Currency
 called USDT. He submitted that the Applicant has purchased
 USDT on a website/portal called 'Zebpay' by paying money
 from his bank account which appears as debit entries in favour
 of Awlencan Innovations India Ltd. and he has sold the said
 Bitcoin by advertising on an online platform called 'Binance'.
 He submitted that the difference between buying and selling Sneha Chavan Page 3 of 12 ::: Uploaded on - 12/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 12/09/2025 23:28:04 ::: ABA-2561-23 C2.doc

 amounts is a marginal amount he earned which is small
 amount. He submitted that these transactions are disclosed in
 his income tax return as 'income from transfer of virtual assets'
 u/s. 115BBH of Income Tax Act and he has nothing to hide.
 These are bank transactions and he is not involved in any
 scam. He submitted that since he has been buying and selling
 USDT, there appears debit and credit entries of high value.
 However, if the difference between buying and selling is
 considered, profit is marginal and the prosecution is only
 looking at volume of amount traded. He submitted that it is
 not the case of just receiving money, and the amounts are re-
 invested and USDT is sold in cycle. 4.2) He further submitted that no amounts are received by
 the Applicant in his bank account from the Complainant. That
 Applicant is not running away and there are no antecedents.
 That pursuant to the earlier orders passed by this Court, the
 Applicant has attended the concerned police station. That all
 the bank statements and income tax records have been given to
 the investigation agency. 4.3) It is urged that section 409 of IPC cannot apply to the
 Applicant because he is neither a public servant nor a banker
 nor a merchant or agent vis-a-vis the complainant. There is no
 element of inducement by the Applicant, as even the FIR does
 not allege such inducement. 4.4) It is submitted that the wife of the complainant had
 demanded Rs.6,50,000/- as recovery from the Applicant Sneha Chavan Page 4 of 12 ::: Uploaded on - 12/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 12/09/2025 23:28:04 ::: ABA-2561-23 C2.doc

 because rest of the amount is already recovered by the
 complainant. He submitted that this is stated on affidavit by
 the Applicant in his rejoinder dated 22.07.2024. 5. Per contra, Mr. Pethe, learned APP for the State submitted as
 under. 5.1) That this is a new era of offence and there is a pattern of
 debit and credit entries in the account of the Applicant, which
 indicates that he has received amounts from two of the seven
 accounts stated in the FIR namely, Sri Laxmi Promoters and
 Coolplx Enterprises. If the entries are seen, then it is clear that
 the Applicant has received money only for a limited period of
 time from a articular account and then there is no transaction.
 That there is no regulatory mechanism for the trading of
 bitcoin platform of Binance on which the Applicant has sold
 USDT. That Binance platform is not situated in India and
 therefore, there is no co-operation from the said entity in the
 investigation and therefore, the money trail goes cold after
 Binance. 5.2) Inviting the Court's attention to contents of FIR, it is
 contended that the telegram mobile-app and certain codes are
 used for reaching to the innocent victims like the complainant
 and an illusion is created that victim will get money by
 indulging into online activities. That out of seven accounts
 mentioned in the FIR, only one account holder could be
 reached using information given to the Bank, from whom part
 of recovery was made, however the entire money is not Sneha Chavan Page 5 of 12 ::: Uploaded on - 12/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 12/09/2025 23:28:04 ::: ABA-2561-23 C2.doc

 recovered. That from the mobile number disclosed in the FIR
 it is clear that call was made from out of India (Myanmar) and
 unsecured websites have been used. 5.3) He further submitted that some of the bank accounts
 mentioned in the FIR are opened in the name of unsuspecting
 persons and used for a limited time so that money trail goes
 cold. That if the bank statement of the Applicant is seen, then
 apparently it is used as conduit to facilitate sending money
 robbed from innocent outside the country. That therefore,
 custodial interrogation is necessary for finding out the money
 trail. 6. Learned advocate for the complainant, in order to assist the
 prosecution, submitted that large amounts from Sri Laxmi Promoters
 and Coolplx have been received by the Applicant and the transactions
 are totaling to crores of rupees and the Applicant is nothing but a
 facilitator for sending amounts fraudulently received from innocent
 victims, outside India and therefore anticipatory protection be
 rejected. 7. Learned counsel Mr. Panickar, in rejoinder raised serious
 grievance about not giving any bifurcation of the amounts received in
 seven bank accounts and looking at only the total amount of
 transaction but not understanding that the entries are nothing but
 debit and credit entries for purchase and sale of USDT, from which
 marginal profit is earned. He submitted that despite the offence
 being related to cyber crime, the same is not being handed over to
 the cyber cell, but local police is investigating but not understanding Sneha Chavan Page 6 of 12 ::: Uploaded on - 12/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 12/09/2025 23:28:04 ::: ABA-2561-23 C2.doc

 the real nature of transactions. He finally submitted that he does not
 have details of the entities buying USDT on Binance platform,
 because USDT is held in escrow account and purchasers are indicated
 through 'user-name' and once the deal is finalised, the amounts are
 transferred in his account. 8. I have carefully considered the submissions and perused the
 record. 9. From the FIR, it is clear that amounts were transferred by the
 complainant into seven stated bank accounts but not into bank
 account of the Applicant. The FIR does not name the Applicant and it
 is filed against unknown person. Since the Applicant received
 amounts from some of the bank accounts mentioned in the FIR, the
 Applicant's name has surfaced. Perusal of the Applicant's bank
 statement for the period between 01.03.2023 to 12.04.2023, which is
 relevant period, shows consistent debits in favour of Awlencan
 Innovation India Limited, which is basically account of Zebpay on
 which crypto-currency can be purchased. This is an Indian entity and
 amounts are transferred to this entity for purchase of USDT. Crypto-
 currency trading is not banned in India. Credit entries from Sri Laxmi
 Promoters and Coolplx Enterprises appear to have corresponding
 debit entries in favour of Alwencan which is portal for purchasing
 crypto currency - Zebpay. In some of the entries, marginal difference
 can be seen which prima facie indicates trading in some kind of
 commodity, in this case, sated to be USDT. Therefore, the contention
 of the Applicant that he is trading into crypto-currency by purchasing
 it from Zebpay and selling it on Binance, for which amount is
 received from two accounts stated in FIR (Sri Laxmi Promoters and Sneha Chavan Page 7 of 12 ::: Uploaded on - 12/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 12/09/2025 23:28:04 ::: ABA-2561-23 C2.doc

 Coolplx Enterprises) appears to be probable. 10. It is material to note that the Applicant has produced on record
 along with affidavit, the screenshot of his trade in USDT as well as
 his income tax record which clearly indicated that he has disclosed
 income from transfer of virtual digital assets under Section 115BBH of the Income Tax Act. The Applicant has also disclosed capital gain
 received from the transfer of virtual digital assets and the amounts
 are only Rs.2,45,731/- and Rs.2,01,381/-. 11. The Applicant has filed affidavits contending that the
 Investigating Officer has mentioned only the amount he has received
 and not the amount he has paid for purchase of crypto currency. It is
 stated on affidavit that his investment into these digital assets is
 maximum Rs.15 lakhs made in cycles of buy-sell. It appears from the
 affidavit of the Applicant that he had written to the Deputy
 Commissioner of Police requesting to record his statement in English
 or Hindi and to provide a copy of statement; but this was perceived
 by the concerned Investigating Officer as a complaint against IO,
 which has resulted in concerned IO telling the Applicant that he will
 be taught a lesson. The Applicant has also pointed out by filing
 affidavit that the IO has noted the earning of the Applicant as
 'commission basis' however it is a profit from trade. 12. The Applicant has produced on record the copy of letter
 written to the DCP, the copy of his KYC verification details with
 Zebpay, copy of bank credit summary statement, profit summary
 statement for the relevant period, purchase summary as per bank
 statement. The copies showing successful transaction of sale of Sneha Chavan Page 8 of 12 ::: Uploaded on - 12/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 12/09/2025 23:28:04 ::: ABA-2561-23 C2.doc

 crypto currency, income tax returns for Assessment Years 2023-2024
 and 2024-2025 are also produced, both showing income from
 transfer of virtual digital assets. He has clearly stated in the affidavit
 that USDT advertised on Binance platform, even if purchased by the
 fraudsters, the money received by him is consideration for sale of
 crypto-currency and he cannot be said to be involved in cheating of
 any individual. The Applicant has stated on the affidavit that wife of
 the complainant, who claims to be an Advocate herself, had come to
 the police station on 20.06.2024 and had asked the Applicant that
 she needs Rs.6,50,000/- as recovery from the Applicant because rest
 of the amount is already recovered. He has also stated on the
 affidavit that even the IO was insisting that the Applicant should
 transfer said amount of Rs.6,50,000/- in the account of complainant
 and then Applicant's custody will not be required. 13. It is only stated across the bar that 38 cases are filed against
 the Applicant, however the details of those alleged cases are not
 forthcoming. An order of this Court showing present complainant as
 the Applicant in ABA/971/2018 in connection with CR No. 206 of
 2017 for offence punishable under Sections 406, 420 read with Section 34 of IPC, where anticipatory bail is granted on 12.02.2019. 14. It is seen from the record that the Respondent/State had earlier
 filed affidavit of IO Mr. Rameshwar P. Rewale to which rejoinder was
 filed by the Applicant. Thereafter, the Respondent/State filed
 affidavit of Mrs. Ashwini V. Patil, Police Sub-Inspector attached to
 concerned Police Station who has reiterated almost same contents of
 earlier affidavit. The Applicant has filed affidavit-in-rejoinder to this
 reply also, raising issue such as the stage of investigation is not Sneha Chavan Page 9 of 12 ::: Uploaded on - 12/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 12/09/2025 23:28:04 ::: ABA-2561-23 C2.doc

 disclosed, it is not disclosed how many accused are arrested and
 released on bail in connection with present FIR and how much
 amount is recovered out of amount alleged to be lost in the FIR and
 whether the person from whom the recovery was made were arrested
 etc. The Applicant has stated in his second affidavit-in-rejoinder that
 he has never met the new police officer who has filed second affidavit
 and despite that it is averred in the second affidavit by PSI Ashwini
 Patil, that the Applicant has given evasive answers to her. 15. Section 409 of IPC applied in the FIR as criminal breach of
 trust by public servant or banker or merchant or agent, prima facie
 does not seem to be attracted, as there is no real interaction /
 transaction between the complainant and the Applicant. Prima facie
 there is no element of entrusting the complainant's money with the
 Applicant. Prima facie, there is no element of inducement by the
 Applicant for parting with money, as according to the complainant
 himself, he was introduced by unknown person on the telephone to
 enter codes on telegram application and to like videos and trade in
 the Crypto currency, for which he has transferred amounts in the
 seven bank accounts. It is material to note that there was no
 instruction to transfer money in Applicant's bank account, even as per
 FIR. 16. The Applicant has clearly explained the transactions of crypto
 currency as entered by him on Zebpay portal and Binance platform.
 Prima facie it has resulted in the debit and credit entries in his bank
 account and the amount seems to have been rotated over and over
 for sale and purchase, resulting in marginal profit to the Applicant. ABA-2561-23 C2.doc 17. From the nature of allegations and the transaction involved,
 they are clearly transactions through bank for which bank statements
 are already submitted. The transactions are also disclosed to income
 tax authority by filing returns, disclosing profits earned through sale-
 purchase of digital assets under concerned sections of the Income Tax
 Act . 18. Therefore, in the facts and circumstances narrated above, in
 my view, custodial interrogation is not necessary. It can not be prima
 facie held that the Applicant is acting as a facilitator for siphoning
 money outside country. Except for relevant period, there is no
 continuing activity in the Applicant's known bank account of similar
 nature. Admittedly, the Applicant is protected under order of this
 Court since 11.09.2023 for last about 2 years. Therefore, I am
 inclined to continue protection and grant anticipatory bail. 19. The application is allowed in terms of order dated 11.09.2023
 subject to following conditions : ABA-2561-23 C2.doc 20. Anticipatory Bail Application is disposed of in the above terms. 21. It is clarified that observations in this order are limited to the
 purpose of deciding this application and shall not influence the Trial
 Court on commencement of Trial, which will be decided in
 accordance with law on its own merits. (M.M. SATHAYE, J.) Sneha Chavan Page 12 of 12 ::: Uploaded on - 12/09/2025 ::: Downloaded on - 12/09/2025 23:28:04 :::