Order No. 30.10.2024 01. 1. Heard Mr. S.K. Dwibedi, learned counsel for the Petitioner and Mr.
 Debasish Biswal, learned Addl. Standing Counsel for the State. 2. By means of this application, the Petitioner seeks grant of
 anticipatory bail U/s. 438 of Cr.P.C . in apprehension of arrest for his
 alleged involvement in the offence under Sections 465 , 468 , 471 , 420 ,
 and 120-B of the IPC read with Section 66(D) of the Information
 Technology Act, 2000 in connection with Cyber Crime & Economic
 Offences, Kandhamal P.S. Case No. 7 of 2023 corresponding to C.T.
 Case No.906/2023 pending in the Court of the learned SDJM,
 Phulbani. 3. The case record reveals that, on the 29.11.2023, Complainant Dr.
 Arup Kumar Jena, a resident of Maa Mangala Sahi, PS-Phulbani
 town, District-Kandhamal, presented a written report alleging that one
 Priyabrata Behera, At/P.O.-Dadaki Square via Paratriangia PS- Phulbani Sadar; Dist-Kandhamal (Mobile: 8260375748/ 8895525090)
and Jogeswar Meher (Mobile: 8658355973), resident of Jharsuguda,
PS/Dist-Jharsuguda, collected money in the name of Platin Coin
Ultima (PLCU). He alleged that approximately lakhs of rupees have
been collected from the depositors/customers with lucrative promises
of multiple returns within weeks. The innocent people of Kandhamal
and other areas have deposited their money in the cryptocurrency
company through the Petitioner and his fellows since January 2022.
Although both agents have collected money from the local people,
they have not paid a single amount to any of the depositors in return.
The complainant had deposited Rs. 3,87,000 in four installments to
Priyabrata Behera during March to April 2022, but they have not paid
a single amount in return. Priyabrata Behera and Jogeswar Meher had
conducted several meetings on the cryptocurrency company at Hotel
Dreamland, Hotel KPs Salunki, and other places of Phulbani Town to
carry out the business. They both have also opened a mobile online
WhatsApp group of the customers consisting of 21 people for the
smooth functioning of the business. They have also made chats on the
mobile phone to different customers for depositing money in the said
company. He further came to know that the Head Office of this
fraudulent company is in Dubai, Platin Tower, Jumeriah Lack Tower,
Swiss Tower, Unit-1004-44, Dubai UAE. He has urged for necessary
investigation and action against the organized crime. 4. Mr. Dwibedi, learned counsel for the Petitioner submits that the
Petitioner maintains no direct involvement in the case at hand. It is
asserted that all alleged transactions were exclusively made to the co-
accused, Priyabrata Behera, and that there exists no evidence linking Page 2 of 5 the Petitioner to any fraudulent activity. Moreover, the complexities
inherent in the realm of cryptocurrency must not be overlooked. The
mere participation in a program concerning cryptocurrency should not
be misconstrued as direct involvement in any illicit activities. It is
emphasized that the Petitioner's professional standing as an advocate
enrolled in Jharsuguda Bar Association, coupled with a lack of
substantive evidence connecting them to the purported wrongdoing,
renders the notion of their culpability untenable. 5. Mr. Biswal, the learned counsel for the State submits the Case
Diary, specific instructions from the IIC Cyber PS, Kandhamal,
statements of other depositors under Section 161 of the CrPC
expressing similar concerns as the complainant, along with WhatsApp
chat screenshots corroborating the lack of any funds received or
returned since 2022. These statements indicate a pattern of behavior
consistent with the alleged fraudulent activities of collecting money
from multiple individuals with promises of high returns, yet failing to
fulfill those promises. Furthermore, the statement of a hotel staff
member who claims to have witnessed meetings between the
petitioner and the co-accused discussing their cryptocurrency
business, along with allegations of baiting innocent people with
promises of high returns within a short period, provides additional
evidence supporting the allegations of the prosecution. This testimony
suggests a modus operandi employed by the petitioner and the co-
accused to lure unsuspecting individuals into investing their money
under false pretenses. It is also submitted by the learned counsel that
the Petitioner has actively cooperated with the investigation by
appearing before the I.O. as per this Court's order and when required. 6. This Court acknowledges the prevalence of scams targeting
individuals interested in cryptocurrency but lacking sufficient
knowledge. Granting anticipatory bail in this case may set a precedent
that could open floodgates to adversity, potentially exacerbating the
situation. 7. Mr. Dwibedi, learned counsel submitted that the complainant had
paid a sum of Rs.3,87,000/- in four instalments is not the correct
position, as the Petitioner has not received any money or benefit in the
business and in absence of any money having been retained by the
Petitioner or that any benefit has been accrued in favour of the
Petitioner, rather the Petitioner himself has been cheated by the Crypto
Currency Company and as such he himself being the victim of the
business of the Company, no manner of liability should be ascribed to
him. 8. Perusal of the investigation record reveals that the present Petitioner
along with two others allured the public and conducted several
meetings at different places and the present Petitioner being a
Diamond Member of the said Company, in hand with others, collected
huge deposits, but did not return any amount to the investors and
misappropriated the whole money collected. The materials available in
the case record, as have been placed by the learned counsel for the
State, establishes a prima facie case against the Petitioner, which
significantly weighs against granting anticipatory bail to the Petitioner.
As such, keeping in view the gravity of the offence as alleged, this
Court is not inclined to grant anticipatory bail in favour of the Page 4 of 5 Petitioner. Accordingly, the prayer for bail is rejected and the
 ABLAPL is dismissed. (Chittaranjan Dash)
 Judge

 S.K. Parida Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: SAMIR KUMAR PARIDA Designation: ADR-cum-ADDL. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY Reason: Authentic Copy Location: ORISSA HIGH COURT, CUTTACK
Date: 30-Oct-2024 19:06:03 Page 5 of 5