1. This hearing has been done through hybrid mode. 2. The present petition has been filed by 63 Petitioners from across the
 country against Respondent No. 1- Enforcement Directorate (ED) as also a
 total of 63 private Respondents which include companies and their
 Promoters/Directors. A tabular representation of the Private Respondents is
 as follows: 3. The allegation of the Petitioners is that these Respondents, with the
 assistance of the Karvy Group of Companies, floated various ponzi schemes
 into which the Petitioners were lured to make investments. As per the petition,
 approximately one thousand (1000) individuals invested their hard earned
 money in these ponzi schemes. It has been estimated that the cumulative
 amount invested in these schemes totals Rs. 800 crores. 4. The case of the Petitioners is that some of the Petitioners filed criminal
 complaints and thereafter, FIRs have been registered against the private
 Respondents. Several investors had even approached the Supreme Court
 which vide order dated 20th April, 2022 had directed as under: 5. The Petitioners then preferred complaints before the Enforcement
 Directorate (ED) requesting action in accordance with law against the
 accused. However, till date, the Petitioners are not aware of any action taken
 against the private Respondents as a result of the complaint filed on 6 th
 September, 2022. 6. Mr. Ahluwalia, ld. CGSC appearing for the ED submits that the ED has
 launched a money laundering investigation against M/s Karvy Stock Brocking W.P.(C) 16888/2022 Page 3 of 4 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:13.12.2022 10:29:22 2022/DHC/005491

 Ltd. and various other connected entities. Significant developments have
 taken place in these investigations and the matter is under examination.
 According to the ED, the Petitioners' complaint has already been taken on
 record. 7. Ld. counsel for the Petitioners submits that the private Respondents
 arrayed in this petition have conspired and connived with Karvy and its
 promoters to dupe the Petitioners. Thus, the investigation ought not to be
 restricted only to Karvy but to all the other private Respondents arrayed in the
 present petition as well. 8. Considering the nature of allegations and the stand taken by the parties,
 it is directed that the contents of the present writ petition along with the
 annexures and documents shall be transmitted to ED. Since the ED has
 already stated that the Petitioners' complaint is under examination, let the
 allegations made in this writ petition be also considered and proper action be
 taken in accordance with law. 9. In view of the above discussion, no further orders are called for in this
 writ petition. The ED shall proceed in accordance with law. Petition is
 disposed of. All pending applications are also disposed of. PRATHIBA M. SINGH
 JUDGE
 DECEMBER 9, 2022/Rahul/AM W.P.(C) 16888/2022 Page 4 of 4 Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:DEVANSHU JOSHI Signing Date:13.12.2022 10:29:22