[1] By way of this Criminal Miscellaneous Application under Section

439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, the applicant - original

accused No.1 is seeking, inter alia, regular bail in connection with the

F.I.R. being C. R. No.11210015210284 of 2021 dated 10th December

2021 registered with the D.C.B. Police Station, Surat city for the offence

punishable under Sections 406 , 409 , 420 and 120B of the Indian Penal

Code and Sections 3 , 4 , 5 and 6 of the Gujarat Protection of Interest of

Depositors (In Financial Establishments) Act. [2] As per the version of the F.I.R., the complainant is a Tax

Consultant and running his tax consultancy in the name of R. V. Purohit

and Company. The complainant, through his friends - Prasanna Puniwal

and Altaf Vadhvaniya came to know that the applicant - Manojbhai Patel Page 1 of 9 Downloaded on : Wed Aug 10 20:27:31 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/8546/2022 ORDER DATED: 05/08/2022

(accused No.1) is the owner of IMAX Capital Company and wherein the

trading work of Forex Trading and Crypto Arbitrage is being done. As

Prasanna Puniwal and Altaf Vadhvaniya were intending to invest in the

said company, they also recommended the complainant to invest in the

said company. The complainant was informed by Prasanna Puniwal that

on 10th November, the owner of IMAX Capital Company i.e. the

applicant - Manojbhai Patel (accused No.1) and one Yusuf @ Sher Ali

are coming at the Anant Bliss Hotel, Surat. Accordingly, the complainant

met the applicant - Manojbhai Patel (accused No.1) and Yusufkhan,

wherein the applicant -Manojbhai Patel (accused No.1) has given an

understanding that their IMAX Capital Company is registered at

Thailand, which is an international company, in which they are doing

the investment of Forex Trading and Crypto Arbitrage. The applicant -

Manojbhai Patel further told the complainant that he will get 1% interest

on the amount he invests in the company and thereafter, the applicant -

Manojbhai Patel (accused No.1) organized one event on the same day in

the OYO Utsav Hall, wherein a public presentation was done. After an

event, the complainant found the said opportunity worth investing and

thereby, the complainant has given Rs.12 Lakh in cash to the applicant -

Manojbhai Patel (accused No.1). Thereafter, the applicant - Manojbhai

Patel (accused No.1) instantly opened an ID in the website

"imaxcapital.io" and accordingly, he has shown the complainant that the Page 2 of 9 Downloaded on : Wed Aug 10 20:27:31 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/8546/2022 ORDER DATED: 05/08/2022

other investors have also invested the amount. Thereafter, the applicant

accused has given bank account numbers to the complainant i.e. (1) the

bank account of Realtime Trading, (2) bank account Atlal Enterprise, (3)

bank account of Avika Mishra and (4) bank account of Wellexa Wellness,

and thereafter, asked him to invest the amount in the said accounts

numbers and as against that, he will get the slip from the company's

website accordingly. One ID Number - IC61841828 was given to the

complainant, by which the complainant could see the investment status.

Thereafter, periodically, the complainant has deposited Rs.37,06,000/-,

Rs.35,00,000/- and Rs.35,57,000/- in various accounts. Thereafter, the

complainant verified online through his ID, wherein 1,12,840 Dollars

were being shown and thus, the complainant felt ensured that the

investment is safe. Thereafter, the company has changed the website.

Upon being contacted, the applicant - Manojbhai Patel informed the

complainant that there is a problem in the website and accordingly, a

new website is opened in the name of IMAX Global, in which, the

investment of the complainant is shown to have been transferred.

However, return of 1%, as was promised, is not given and upon

contacting the applicant - Manojbhai Patel (accused No.1) and

Yusufkhan, phone calls were not being received. Thus, upon further

inquiry, it was come to the notice of the complainant that said

Manojbhai and Yusufkhan have also cheated many investors in Jaipur Page 3 of 9 Downloaded on : Wed Aug 10 20:27:31 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/8546/2022 ORDER DATED: 05/08/2022

with the same modus operandi. Thus, the complainant has lodged the

F.I.R. against the present applicant accused. [3] Pursuant to the said F.I.R., the Investigating Agency has carried

out the investigation and filed chargesheet. Thus, the applicant has

approached the learned Sessions Judge, Surat by way of Criminal

Miscellaneous Application No.53 of 2022 dated 8 th April 2022 under Section 439 of the Cr.P.C. seeking, inter alia, regular bail, which came

up for hearing before the learned Sessions Judge, who, vide its order

dated 19th April 2022, rejected the said application.

[4] Being aggrieved and dissatisfied with the aforesaid, the applicant

has approached this Court by way of present Criminal Miscellaneous

Application seeking regular bail. [5] I have heard Mr. N. K. Majmudar, learned advocate for the

applicant and Ms. Moxa Thakkar, learned A.P.P. for the State of Gujarat.

[6] Mr. Majmudar submitted that the applicant is absolutely an

innocent person and on the contrary, he is also victim as his investment

in the said company has not been returned back. Mr. Majmudar

submitted that the present applicant is not the owner of IMAX Capital

Company and thereby, he has nothing to do with the said company.

According to Mr. Majmudar, he is one of the investors, who has been Page 4 of 9 Downloaded on : Wed Aug 10 20:27:31 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/8546/2022 ORDER DATED: 05/08/2022

defrauded by the said company. Mr. Majmudar submitted that the

investigation is over and the chargesheet has been filed, thereby, as the

alleged offence is based on documentary evidence, custody of the

applicant is no more required and therefore, the applicant may be

released on regular bail. [7] Mr. Majmudar submitted that the present applicant is a

permanent resident of Rajasthan and having properties standing in his

name, thus, is not likely to run away or flee from the justice. Mr.

Majmudar submitted that as the chargesheet has been filed, there is no

possibility of tampering with the evidence, therefore, the present

applicant be released on bail. Mr. Majmudar submitted that the

complainant has voluntarily invested a huge amount through direct

payee account system in the various accounts and the said amount has

been paid to IMAX Capital Company. Mr. Majmudar submitted that the

present applicant has met the complainant in the event organized at

Surat and that he has not given any commitment and/or promise about

the return on investment in the capacity of owner of IMAX Capital

Company. [8] By making the above submissions, Mr. Majmudar, learned

advocate has prayed this Court to grant regular bail to the present

applicant. Page 5 of 9 Downloaded on : Wed Aug 10 20:27:31 IST 2022 has vehemently opposed the present application contending that the

present applicant is the main accused of a huge fraud. Ms. Thakkar

submitted that the present applicant has committed fraud with the said

modus operandi even in the State of Rajasthan and even in the New

Delhi. According to Ms. Thakkar, in all 38 F.I.Rs. are registered against

the present applicant. Ms. Thakkar, therefore, submitted that the present

applicant is the huge scamster and habitual offender, who duped many

investors like the present complainant. Ms. Thakkar further submitted

that the present applicant is a Managing Director of IMAX Capital

Company and having citizenship card of UAE. Ms. Thakkar further

submitted that some of the money came to be deposited by the

complainant in the account of one co-accused Avika Mishra, who is

alleged to have been staying in live-in relationship with the present

applicant accused, which suggests a strong prima facie case against the

present applicant. The said co-accused Avika Mishra, in whose bank

account the amount came to be deposited, is yet not arrested. Ms.

Thakkar further submitted that the bank accounts were opened in the

name of false company namely Realtime Trading and Wellexa Wellness

and wherein the complainant and other investors have invested money,

which, subsequently, came to be withdrawn by the accused. According

to Ms. Thakkar, the intention of the applicant seems to be fraudulent Page 6 of 9 Downloaded on : Wed Aug 10 20:27:31 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/8546/2022 ORDER DATED: 05/08/2022

since inception and thus, to defraud the applicant, a fraudulent company

came to be created, wherein the investments of investors were brought

initially in different accounts and then, from those accounts, the amount

came to be withdrawn. Ms. Thakkar further submitted that though the

investigation is over, the further investigation under Section 173(8) of

the Cr.P.C. is still going on and thus, during the pendency of such

further investigation coupled with the fact that the co-accused Avika

Mishra is yet not arrested, learned A.P.P. Ms. Thakkar has vehemently

opposed for grant of regular bail to the applicant. [10] By making the above submissions, Ms. Thakkar, learned A.P.P. has

prayed this Court to dismiss the present Criminal Miscellaneous

Application. [11] I have heard the learned advocates for the respective parties and

have gone through the materials produced on record. No other and

further submissions have been canvassed by the learned advocates for

the respective parties, except what are stated hereinabove.

[12] Having heard the submissions of the respective parties, as it

transpires during the course of hearing that the present applicant is

facing as many as 38 F.I.Rs. in the State of Rajasthan and New Delhi in

addition to the impugned F.I.R. registered with the D.C.B. Police Station,

Surat city. It appears that the present applicant appears to be habitual Page 7 of 9 Downloaded on : Wed Aug 10 20:27:31 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/8546/2022 ORDER DATED: 05/08/2022

offender and appears to have duped a lot of investors by the same

modus operandi. It further appears that from the investigation, the

present applicant is the Managing Director of IMAX Capital Company. It

further appears that for the purpose of creating such a scam, the

applicant and the co-accused have created fraudulent company and

opened the accounts of those companies i.e. Realtime Trading in the

ICICI Bank; Atlal Enterprise in the Axis Bank; personal account of Ms.

Avika Mishra in the ICICI Bank and Wellexa Wellness in the Axis Bank.

At this stage, it is required to be noted that the co-accused - Avika

Mishra is yet not arrested and during the course of investigation, it

reveals that the said co-accused and the present applicant were living in

live-in relationship and some amount invested by the investors in the

bank account of the co-accused Ms. Avika Mishra, which appears to be

withdrawn. Thus, prima facie, nexus between the present applicant and

Avika Mishra surfaces on record. It is required to be noted that since the

inception, the intention of the applicant - accused was not genuine and

he allured the investors like the complainant by showing rosy picture of

high return on investment i.e. 1% per day. It also appears that the

further investigation under Section 173(8) of the Cr.P.C. is going on and

the co-accused Avika Mishra is yet not arrested. Thus, in that event, in

my considered opinion, if the present applicant is released on bail would

prejudice to the further investigation and the applicant having Page 8 of 9 Downloaded on : Wed Aug 10 20:27:31 IST 2022 R/CR.MA/8546/2022 ORDER DATED: 05/08/2022

citizenship card of UAE may flee from the justice. [13] In the aforesaid facts and circumstances, the present applicant,

who is involved in the series of offences and facing as many as 38 F.I.R.

in the State of Rajasthan, New Delhi as well as State of Gujarat, in my

considered opinion, does not require to be shown any leniency.

Accordingly, the application seeking regular bail deserves to be rejected.

[14] Resultantly, the present Criminal Miscellaneous Application is

hereby rejected. Notice stands discharged. (NIRAL R. MEHTA,J)
CHANDRESH Page 9 of 9 Downloaded on : Wed Aug 10 20:27:31 IST 2022