1. These 16 cross-appeals have been filed against orders of the CIT(A) for the asst. yrs. 1980-81, 1981-82, 1982-83, 1983-84, 1986-87, 1987-88 and 1989-90. Since, common issue is involved in all these appeals, they are disposed of by this common order for the sake of convenience. The brief facts of the case were that the original assessment has been completed in each of the assessment year on an income detailed as under respectively : 2. There was search and seizure proceedings at the business premises of the assessee as well as at the residential premises of the managing director, Sri K.V.R. Chowdary on 10th Feb., 1988, in accordance with warrant of authorisation dt. 8th Feb., 1988. The search continued till 7 p.m. on 11th Feb., 1988. During the course of the search, although the cash book, ledger of the assessee-company and that of the family of the managing director and that of the other connected firms relating to the period from 1976-77 till 1987-88 were found and seized along with certain credit notes, share certificates and other slips tied up in 3 bundles. As per Panchnama certain documents and pronotes from the chamber of Sri K.V.R. Chowdary were also found and seized as per details given in Annex. A to the Panchnama, no undisclosed assets, bullion or cash in hand was found and seized. No additions were made by the AO on the basis of the books of account and documents found and seized as per Panchnama. The statement of managing director of the company who was 62 years old was recorded, as alleged from 8.45 a.m. on 10th Feb., 1988 and continued till 11th Feb., 1988 as is clear from the copy of the statement filed before us appearing from pp. 1 to 15 of the paper book No. 2 especially pp. 11, 12 to 15, the signatures of the managing director were taken upto p. 11 on 10th Feb., 1988 while from pp. 13 to 15 the signatures were taken on 11th Feb., 1988 although on all the pages witnesses have signed on 10th Feb., 1988 even though it was signed by the Revenue authorities on 11th Feb., 1988. This statement was regarded to be one recorded under Section 132(4) of the IT Act. The relevant abstracts of the statement from Q. No. 38 to Q. No. 48 are given as under : Q. 41 : What exactly is the service rendered by the above 4 concerns ? Ans. : The above 4 concerns are booking orders and sending the same to us. Q. 42 : From the above statement, I understand that they merely book the orders. Did I understand correctly ? Ans. : Yes. You understood correctly. Q. 43 : Are there any agreements with the above four concerns ? Ans. : Yes. Agreements are available. Q. 44 : Kindly tell me the addresses of the above-mentioned concerns ? Ans. : M/s Mehta Trading Co. is located in Bombay and the other 3 concerns are located in Kakinada, A.P.
 

Q. 45 : Can you tell me the constitution of the aforesaid concerns, i.e., whether proprietary or partnership concerns, etc. ? Ans. : All the four concerns are registered firms. Q. 46 : Please tell me whether these agreements entered by the company were approved by the board of directors or not ? Ans. : To the best of my remembrance, the board of directors approved the agreements. Q. 47 : Please tell me the territory or products allotted to the aforesaid four concerns ? Ans. : They do not have any territories and they can sell any where in the country. Q. 48 : At this point of time, may I invite your attention to Section 132(4) of the IT Act, which states that any disclosure made during the course of search operation voluntarily would not amount to concealment of income. Would you make any disclosure voluntarily ? Ans. : The statement below is written by me. Sd/- (K. Sarathi)
 

In my capacity of the managing director of M/s S.R.M.T. Ltd., would like to make some admissions. There are three firms of authorised dealers of the said company at Kakinada namely Sri Bhaskara Auto Services, Sri Bhanu Enterprises and Sri Prabhakar Enterprises, these are partnership firms, which from their conception, and till date, have been receiving commission from the said company at the rate of 15 per cent of net sales turnover a portion of which, roughly 50 per cent, is given away to the retail dealers as overriding commission as per agreement on the sales effected by him, of the products of S.R.M.T. Ltd. After deduction the overriding commission, given away to the retail-dealers the net income in the hands of the abovesaid three partnership firms, has suffered tax, as income of said three firms. I would like to state and affirm that the net income of the said three firms as referred to above is in reality the additional income during the respective years of the M/s S.R.M.T. Ltd. Over and above the income assessed to tax or disclosed in the return of income or figuring of books of account of M/s S.R.M.T. Ltd. right now I am not in a position to exactly state the said additional income relevant for each of the concerned years. However, taking an overall view, certain expenditure incurred etc., I would state and affirm that the total amount of additional income of M/s S.R.M.T. Ltd. for the above said years of payment of commission to the above said three firms, and till date, would be about Rs. 260 lakhs (Rs. two hundred sixty lakhs). Therefore, M/s S.R.M.T. Ltd. is liable to pay additional tax on the said additional income for the concerned years. In my capacity as the managing director of M/s S.R.M.T. Ltd. would undertake to arrange for expeditious payment of the said due additional taxes. However, I would expect that after collecting the additional taxes due credit for taxes paid by the abovesaid said three partnership firms and the partners of the said three firms should first be given and thereafter the net tax liability be determined. We would be providing exact figure for the respective assessment years after verifying our books of account keeping in view the above admitted figure Rs. 260 lakhs. But, however, since the concommitant tax liability will be staggering for being paid in one instalment I would expect that the IT Department will be considerate in accepting payment of the said additional due taxes over a period of 15 months. Sd/- K.V.R. Chowdary,
 

11-2-1988. The above statement has been explained to my father Sri K.V.R. Chowdary in Telugu and he accepted the contents true and correct. Sd/- (K. Sarathi)
 

11-2-1988. Before me
 

Sd/- (C.R. Sekhar Reddy)
 

Asstt. Director of Inspection (Inv.)
 

Unit-I, Hyderabad." Q. No. 48 and its answer was signed on 11th Feb., 1988 while the others were signed on 10th Feb., 1988. On the basis of this statement, the AO reopened the assessment for the asst. yrs. 1980-81, 1981-82, 1982-83 and 1983-84 by issuing notices dt. 17th March, 1989, 12th Feb., 1990, 12th Feb., 1990 and 12th Feb., 1990, respectively. In response thereto, the assessee on 19th April, 1989, 16th March, 1990, 16th March, 1990 and 16th March, 1990, filed the returns respectively showing the income as has been originally assessed for each of the assessment years. The AO on the basis of the aforesaid statement of the managing director of the assessee disallowed the commission paid to three authorised dealers based at Kakinada while allowed the commission paid to the authorised dealers based at Mumbai in which case also the search under Section 132 has taken place. Thus, the assessments were completed for the asst. yrs. 1980-81 to 1983-84 under Section 143(3) read with Section 147 while the assessments for the asst. yrs. 1986-87 to 1989-90 were completed under Section 143(3) by making the following disallowances for commission paid : 3. When the matter went before the CIT(A), the CIT(A) deleted the addition for the asst. yrs. 1980-81 to 1983-84, 1988-89 and 1989-90 in toto while disallowances for the asst. yrs. 1986-87 and 1987-88 were partly deleted and sustained to the extent of Rs. 25,00,000 in each of the assessment years under appeal. The orders of the CIT(A) are dt. 24th Nov., 1989 for asst. yr. 1986-87, 30th Oct., 1991 for asst. yrs. 1980-81 and 1988-89, 9th Nov., 1990 for asst. yr. 1987-88, 23rd July, 1992 for asst. yrs. 1981-82 to 1983-84 and 3rd Aug., 1992 for asst. yr. 1989-90. Similar issue regarding the deductibility of the commission paid to the authorised dealer has also arisen in the asst. yrs. 1984-85 and 1985-86. In those assessment years also, the CIT(A) has partly sustained the disallowance to the extent of Rs. 20,00,000 and Rs. 21,29,270, respectively. For the asst. yr, 1984-85 and asst. yr. 1985-86, the appeals were disposed of by the Tribunal 'A' Bench Hyderabad in ITA Nos. 2000/Hyd/1987 and 1502/Hyd/1989 and ITA Nos. 2471/Hyd/1987 and 1622/Hyd/1989 vide order dt. 11th May, 1990 by which the learned AM allowed the appeal of the assessee and dismissed the appeal of the Department. But the learned JM passed a dissenting order and there being difference of opinion, the issue relating to the allowability of the commission referred to the Third Member. The learned Third Member vide order dt. 4th Jan., 1991 [reported as Ramadas Motor Transport Ltd. v. ITO (1991) 37 ITD 48 (Hyd)(TM)--Ed.] allowed the appeal of the assessee and dismissed the appeal of the Revenue by holding as under vide paras 7 to 13 of its order reads as under : 4. The appeals for the asst. yrs. 1980-81, 1986-87, 1987-88, 1988-89 were disposed of by the Hyderabad Bench of the Tribunal vide order dt. 13th Oct., 1994 by setting aside the issue relating to the disallowance of the commission and sending it back to the file of the AO for re-examination by holding under paras 40 to 48, reproduced as under : JM "43. It has long been held that the admissibility of evidence is not affected by the illegality of the means by which the evidence has been obtained, though a person taking recourse to illegality may be accountable under the law. In Karma V.R. 1955 All E.R. 326 PC, it was held that if evidence is relevant the Court is not concerned by the method by which it was obtained or with the question whether that method was tortuous but excusable. This principle of law propounded by the Privy Council was followed by the Supreme Court in Magraj Patodia v. R.K. Birla . It was held that the fact that a document was procured by improper or even illegal means will not be a bar to its admissibility if it is relevant and its genuineness is proved. In the case of Dr. Partap Singh v. Director of Enforcement , it was held that illegality does not vitiate evidence collected during search. Similar view was expressed in the case of Pooran Mal (supra). In my opinion, evidence collected during the search can be utilised against the assessee even if the search is illegal. It does not mean that such evidence collected during legal search cannot be utilised against the assessee. We are here concerned with the evidence which was collected during the properly authorised search operation conducted in a smooth manner. The findings of learned AM at para 19.4 are pertinent. I agree with the same. It cannot be said that the statements were taken under threat of intimidation or under coercion. There is no presumption of illegality or wrong-doing when an authority is exercising its statutory functions. It has to be proved, if there has been any. No such proof came forth except bare assertions. In these circumstances, acceptability of statements recorded under Section 132(4) cannot be questioned. Since the statements are relevant and the genuineness is proved, I do not think there is any bar as to its admissibility." It was also noticed by the Third Member in para 8 of his order and he proceeded to dispose of the matter on the basis that both the Members agreed that the statement of Sri K.V.R. Chowdary should be looked into. 5. The appeal for the asst. yrs. 1981-82 to 1983-84 were disposed of by the Tribunal vide order dt. 26th Oct., 1995 by setting aside the order and sending back the issue of the deductibility of the commission to the file of the AO following its earlier order dt. 13th Oct., 1994. Similarly the appeal for the asst. yr. 1989-90 was also disposed of by setting aside and sending back this issue to the file of the AO. 6. The AO completed the set-aside assessments for each of these assessment years on the date mentioned hereunder by disallowing the commission for each of the assessment year detailed as under : 7. The AO made the aforesaid disallowances by making the following observations under paras 24 and 25 of his order for the asst. yr. 1980-81, dt. 30th March, 1997 : 25. Having regard to the factual position brought out above, I have come to the conclusion that there is no truth in the assessee's claim of existence of authorised dealer firms and the corresponding payment of commission to them and thus the entire transactions are held to be sham and ingenuine thereby warranting disallowance of the commission payments. It may be observed here that the documents now relied on by the assessee with the help of which the dealers were persuaded to file affidavits in its favour are treated as fabricated documents to get through its claim and consequently the affidavits filed by them cannot be relied upon as having no evidentiary value. In this view of the matter, the disallowance made in the original assessment under Section 143(3) read with, Section 147 dt. 27th March, 1991 needs no disturbance and it stands accordingly." 8. By following the order for the asst. yr. 1980-81 the disallowances were also made in the other assessment years. The assessee went in appeal against the order of the AO. The CIT(A) by passing the two consolidated orders dt. 30th April, 1998 and 17th Aug., 1998 sustained the disallowance to the extent of Rs. 20,00,000; Rs. 18,00,000; Rs. 20,00,000; Rs. 20,00,000; Rs. 25,00,000; Rs. 25,00,000; Rs. 25,00,000 and Rs. 18,00,000 for each of the assessment year mentioned hereinabove respectively by observing as under vide paras 3.2.4 to 3.2.8 in his order dt. 30th April, 1998 and following the same in his subsequent order dt. 17th Aug., 1998 : 3.2.5. At the time of hearing of appeal, it was contended on behalf of the assessee that the three AD firms duly reflected the commission received from the assessee in the relevant returns of income filed with the same AO, who also assessed such income for the said years with proper modifications. Registration was also granted to these firms under the IT Act and the genuineness of the said firms was finally upheld by the Tribunal vide their orders for the relevant years. Various assessment details of these firms were also filed with me in support of the aforesaid contention. On perusal of the details filed, I find that the three AD firms viz. BAS, PE, and BE were assessed by the AO, Central Circle, Visakhapatnam, who also happened to be the AO of the assessee-company for the relevant years. All the three firms were assessed as registered firms and the only source of income of the three firms was commission received by them from the assessee-company, though in the case of PE, it also carried on business in Voltas company fridges, etc. The commission received by these firms for the relevant year was subjected to tax in the respective assessment years. Besides, these firms have paid huge amounts of taxes and the share incomes from these partnership firms were also subjected to tax in the hands of the respective partners by the same AO who also assessed the assessee-company for those years. Besides, it is seen that even after search operations that took place on 10th Feb., 1998, the same AO, who assessed the assessee-company as well as the above three AD firms granted registration to these firms, a fact which would certainly establish the genuineness of these firms. This particular fact was also duly considered by the Hon'ble Tribunal in the assessee's case for the asst. yrs. 1984-85 and 1985-86 and the disallowance of commission retained by the CIT(A) out of similar commission payments was deleted in full by the Tribunal for the said years on cross-appeals filed by the assessee. 3.2.6. So far as M/s Ravi Auto Agencies, Kakinada, is concerned, the said firm was assessed by ITO, Ward-I, Kakinada, in the status of a registered firm for the asst. yr. 1980-81. Incidentally, the same AO also assessed the assessee for the year under consideration and the only source of income of the said firm was income by way of commission from the assessee for propagating and booking orders for its products and a part of the income was also from purchase and sale of fridges, etc. The genuineness of the said firm was also not doubted by the IT Department and the share income from the said firm was assessed by the same AO, who assessed the assessee and the said firm. Further, all the payments were made only through account payee cheques or crossed cheques by the assessee to the said firm, which stood dissolved in 1980. The assessability of receipt of commission from the assessee in the hands of the above AD firms for the relevant years was never in dispute. As a matter of fact, such claim of the AD firms was accepted by the respective AOs, who subjected the commission received from the assessee to tax in the hands of the said firms for the relevant years. 3.2.7. The genuineness of the AD firms (barring M/s Ravi Auto Agency) was of course, subsequently questioned by the same AO, who cancelled the registration allowed earlier for the relevant years by invoking the provisions of Section 186 . However, in appeals filed by the said firms, the CIT(A) held that the firms were entitled to be assessed as registered firms and allowed registration to them under the IT Act accordingly for the relevant years. In further appeals preferred by the Department before the Hon'ble Tribunal, the orders of the CIT(A) allowing registration to these firms were upheld and consequently, the firms were allowed to be assessed as registered firms. Subsequent reference applications of the Department under Section 256(1) against the orders of the Tribunal in the case of the three firms were also rejected. The present AO was confronted with the assessment details of the AD firms as cited above in my official chamber on 27th April, 1998. He perused the assessment details of the AD firms and did not disagree with the details so filed. Thus, the genuineness of these three AD firms, carrying on independent business of its own, as commission agents for the products of the assessee has also been accepted by the Tribunal. It will not be out of place to mention here that the contention regarding the genuineness of the three AD firms constituted for the purpose of carrying on business as commission agents of the assessee-company and their claim regarding registration under the IT Act has been accepted by the Hon'ble Tribunal vide their orders in ITA Nos. 224 to 228/Hyd/1992, dt. 9th May, 1995 (in the case of Bhanu Enterprises); 211 to 217/Hyd/1992, dt. 9th May, 1995 (in the case of Bhaskara Auto Service) and 218 to 222/Hyd/1992, dt. 9th May, 1995 (in the case of Sri Prabhakar Enterprises) which were subsequent to the passing of their consolidated order dt. 13th Oct., 1994, setting aside the assessments for the relevant years to the file of the AO with a direction to decide afresh the issue regarding allowability of payment of commission by the assessee to the three AD firms. Considering this aspect of the matter, I am of the opinion that the Hon'ble Tribunal have impliedly agreed with the substantial claim of the assessee regarding the commission payments in question to the three AD firms and the relevant assessments were only set-aside to the file of the AO for being reframed after allowing the assessee an opportunity to rebut the material in the form of statements recorded from the 28 dealers in March, 1991. Presumably, the assessments were set-aside to comply with the formality of affording an opportunity to the assessee to rebut the above material. Thus, I would not agree with the opinion of the AO given in his supplementary remand report of the effect that it would not be necessary at the stage of reassessments to examine the issue as to how the commission payments have reached the AD firms and were reflected in their assessments for the relevant years. As a matter of fact, such an observation of his does not stand to any reason and the same must be treated as irrelevant for the present purpose. On the contrary, if the commission payments to the three AD firms were not genuine and were to be treated as bogus as contended by the AO, it was absolutely necessary for him to examine the issue as to how the alleged commission payments reached back the assessee-company and bring cogent materials on the record in support of the said contention, which he has failed to do. Apart from placing reliance on the materials in the form of statements recorded from the managing director of the assessee-company and the managing partners of some of the AD firms pursuant to operation under Section 132 and the statements recorded from the 28 dealer firms behind the back of the assessee in March, 1991, he has not brought on record any independent and positive material worth the name to disprove the claim of the assessee regarding the payment of commission to the AD firms for the relevant years. 3.2.8. In view of my observations as made in the preceding paragraphs especially the findings recorded in para 3.2.2 of this order, it would be really futile to hold the entire payments of commission to the subject AD firms as bogus. It would be rather worthwhile to attempt an exercise to find out only the reasonable sum out of the assessee's total claim of commission payments made to the AD firms, which could be said to have been wholly and exclusively laid out for the purpose of its business, keeping in view the volume of business done and the nature and extent of services rendered by the AD firms for the promotion of its business during the relevant years. In this regard, I would like to follow the order of my learned predecessor in ITA No. 14/AC(CC)/VSP/1988-89, dt. 24th Nov., 1989 for the asst. yr. 1986-87 in the assessee's case, wherein the tests for ascertainment of a reasonable allowance/disallowance out of the assessee's claim of commission payments to the AD firms have been prescribed. Following the same tests as laid down in the above cited appellate order, I would hold that the three AD firms had a large number of partners, who in their turn had entered into sub-partnerships with several persons and the allowable/disallowable sum out of the alleged commission payments should be determined with reference to the factors such as (i) Bona fide expenses of the dealership firms; (ii) Savings to the assessee of obligatory expenses as corporate body; (iii) Beneficial enjoyment by the assessee of substantial interest through deposits retained from the dealers; and (iv) Reasonable return on the capital investment by, the partners of the firm, together with income-tax paid by the firms. Considering the above aspects of the point at issue and the fact that exact quantification of the said four elements not being possible, I would restrict the disallowance of commission payments to the AD firms to Rs. 20 lakh in round figures for the asst. yr. 1980-81 and Rs. 25 lakh each for the asst. yrs. 1986-87, 1987-88 and 1988-89 which shall meet the ends of justice. I direct accordingly." 9. The assessee and the Revenue both being aggrieved have come in appeal before us. The issue involved in all these appeals concerns the deductibility of the payment of commission made to M/s Sri Bhanu Enterprises, M/s Sri Bhaskara Auto Service and Sri Prabhakar Enterprises and M/s Ravi Auto Agencies all of Kakinada. In some of the years, all the parties are not involved. The facts relating to the payment of commission are that the assessee allowed a trade discount of 25 per cent on list price of its automobile spares sold to the customers directly. The assessee had entered into agreements with the authorised dealers and allowed them a commission @ 15 per cent on the sale consideration, i.e., list price minus trade discount allowed on the orders booked by them. Besides the commission, the authorised dealers were also entitled to target commission in case total turnover exceeds the target assigned. The copies of the agreements entered into are available from pp. 37 to 47 of the paper book No. 3. The main terms and conditions as entered into by the assessee with the authorised dealer are reproduced as under: 4. The authorised dealer shall not under any circumstances sell or offer for sale of 'SRMT' auto parts either by deviating the above discount policies or by overselling in the prices stipulated by the company from time to time. 5. All the prices and discount structures are subject to change without notice and those that are communicated from time to time to the authorised dealer by the company shall be binding. 6. The company will allow the authorised dealer a discount of 25 and 15 per cent on the ruling list prices of 'SRMT' auto parts against the orders booked by their representatives and the difference of commission between the discount of the authorised dealer and discount allowed to the dealer will be credited to the account of the authorised dealer. 7. The company shall allow an additional trade discount of 1 per cent to the authorised dealer, at the end of the year, on the total turnover pf business obtained by him over and above Rs. 50,00,000 during the financial year ending with 31st March. 8. The authorised dealer shall bear the expenses incurred towards the consignments dishonoured. 9. The authorised dealer shall not be entitled for any discount or commission on the business of State Transport Undertakings or any other Government Departments. 10. The authorised dealer shall have to send the company the tour programmes of their representatives, true copies of the orders booked by their representatives with original reports and the copies of correspondence made between the authorised dealer and the parties. 11. The authorised dealer alone shall be held responsible for all the transactions carried out by him either directly or indirectly even after the termination of the agreement and the authorised dealer shall not be absolved from the responsibilities of realising his obligations arising out of his previous commitments with the parties; and the company shall not be liable to make good of any losses or promises to any one introduced or caused to introduce by the authorised dealer for any lapses of his fulfilment of such commitments with his parties." 10. Thus, the authorised, dealers were required to pay under the agreement incentive and the additional commission to the customers of the assessee-company. They were also required to keep the deposit with the company. They were also responsible for the recovery of the sale consideration for the orders booked through them. The additional commission payable to the customer varied between 2 per cent to 10 per cent depending upon the purchases made by the individual customer. The commission was paid by the assessee-company to each authorised dealer by cheque. During the course of enquiries, for the asst. yr. 1984-85, the AO noted that the authorised dealer firms and the sub-partnerships had only make-believe existence and that no work had been done by them to deserve such huge brokerage payments and that what has been paid by the assessee-company was brought back into the hands of the management of the company with the help of its employees and trusted persons who encashed many of the cheques supposed to have been given to the persons as their share of profit. Although the proceedings for the asst. yr. 1984-85 and asst. yr. 1985-86 became final with the order of the Tribunal deleting the disallowances made by the AO on this basis and on the basis of the statement recorded during the course of the search from the managing director of the company but the additions in all the other years were pending before the Tribunal. The Revenue brought additional evidences by way of statement of 28 dealers recorded by the Revenue in March, 1991 on the basis of which the Tribunal set-aside the assessment for the re-examination of this issue by the AO. Thus, when the disallowances were again made by the AO, the matter travelled to this Tribunal. 11. The learned Authorised Representative before us submitted as many as 8 paper books consisting of about 900 pages along with the written submissions. The learned Authorised Representative submitted that the AO disallowed the commission as he was of the view that the commission paid was not genuine. The CIT(A) although held that the payment of the commission is genuine but restricted the amount allowable on estimate basis. Thus, the only issue involved in these appeals is the allowability of the commission paid to the authorised dealers of the assessee-company situated at Kakinada. The CIT(A) accepted the plea of the assessee that the commission payment to the authorised dealers is for the specific services rendered by them according to the agreement entered into. The assessee is in appeal contesting the observation of the learned CIT(A) that payment of commission is excessive and whereas the Department is in appeal aggrieved by the order of the CIT(A) that the payment of commission is genuine. Therefore, the cross-appeals by the assessee and the Department have been filed against the same issue of allowability of commission paid by the assessee to the authorised dealers firms. 12. The assessee started business as a bus transporter in the year 1944 with nine buses but became one of the leading transport operator in India in course of time. It diversified (because of its experience in truck operations) to the business of manufacture of auto parts. It had to develop market all over India. At one stage it found that its marketing required further strengthening by introducing authorised dealers. They appointed one authorised dealer Mehta Trading Company at Bombay in 1969. After some years, it appointed three more firms during the periods 1979, 1981 and 1983 namely, Sri Bhanu Enterprises, Sri Bhaskara Auto Service and Sri Prabhakar Enterprises all of whom are based at Kakinada. The assessee entered into agreements with each of them specifying the obligations and duties of the authorised dealers and the remuneration payable to them. All the dealers are the partnership firms having no relationship whatsoever with the assessee-company. Each of them had given interest-free deposit of Rs. 5 lakhs. They have separate offices; their own staff and network to support the marketing of the assessee. 13. The IT authorities conducted search and seizure operations at the premises of the assessee on 10th Feb., 1988 which continued upto 12th Feb., 1988. Simultaneously the authorities also conducted search and seizure operations at the premises of the authorised dealers. The authorities did not find any incriminating documents/materials. The authorities did not find cash, jewellery or assets not accounted for either at the premises of the assessee or its directors or at the premises of the authorised dealer firms or their partners. The authorities also did not find any documents leading to the information that the commission paid was not in any way genuine. The search at the premises of the authorised dealers also revealed that the amount of commission received by them was in accordance with the agreements entered into and were properly recorded in their books of account and taxes were paid. 14. The authorities recorded a statement of Sri K.V.R. Chowdhary, the managing director of the company who was 62 years old at the time of search. He initially stated that commission was paid to the authorised dealers. The managing director was very clear till question No. 47 that all the payments of commission were genuinely made. At question No. 47, the date changed from 10th Feb., 1988 to 11th Feb., 1988. Thereafter, he was under pressure from the authorities conducting search and seizure operations and he was made to agree that the commission payments would be declared as undisclosed income. There is no material on record to come to conclusion that the payment of commission is not genuine. A significant mention made by the managing director in the statement was that an amount of Rs. 47 lakhs was with them out of the amount of commission paid and the balance of amount was utilised by the authorised dealer firms themselves. This amount represents commission payable by them (outstanding amount) and the advances received from the authorised dealers firms at the time of entering into agreement. The partners of the authorised dealer firms were also contacted on the date of search. Though they initially stated the truth that the receipt of commission from the assessee-company was true, they were forced by the authorities to state that the amount of commission would be paid back to the assessee-company. But for the statements recorded by the authorities, there was no data or information to prove that commission was not genuine. It is the practice of the authorities conducting the search and seizure operations to prolong the search till late in the night and when the inmates are under stress, coerce them for declaration. This observation is made by the Chellaiah Committee . The CBDT (in the year 2003) issued instructions (mentioning that it is clarificatory in nature) directing authorised officers not to obtain confessions without any material evidence. A copy of the said circular is filed before us. It would clarify that any admission or declaration cannot be taken unless there is corroborative evidence. The terminology used in the said instruction would clarify that the authorities are prevented from obtaining declarations without any material evidence. The Board mentioned that adverse view would be taken if such declarations were obtained. The case of the assessee is one such instance. It can be seen that in the entire statement of Sri K.V.R. Chowdhary, (the then managing director) no mention was made about the genuineness or otherwise of the commission. In the last sentences, in an answer to the last question, the assessee stated that he was under coercion, undue influence and threat till such time he made a declaration about the commission. In the case of the assessee if the facts are dispassionately seen, it clearly indicates that in the entire statement except the last being answer to question No. 48, no mention was made about the commission. The entire material found at the time of search and seizure operations both at the premises of the assessee and at the premises of the dealer firms suggest that the commission paid was genuine. The payments made were chronologically recorded in the books of account of the assessee indicating the sale bills, vouchers, etc. and whereas the seized books of the dealers establish the receipt of the said commission and the expenditure towards services rendered by them. Most of the transactions are through bank. The authorities did not find any cash or assets at the time of search and seizure operations at the premises of any of the directors of the company. There is no information in the seized material to suggest that the commission paid was received back by the company or its directors. The authorities also did not find any assets, cash and jewellery not accounted for in the books of account. The statements so recorded were retracted by the deponents vide their letter dt. 23rd March, 1988. 15. These statements were considered by the Hon'ble Tribunal for the asst. yrs. 1984-85 and 1985-86. A copy of the order of the Third Member who decided the appeal placed before the Hon'ble Tribunal. Suffice it to say that the Hon'ble Tribunal came to the conclusion that the statements recorded from the managing director and other firms of the dealers are not correct. Though the Hon'ble Tribunal did not find fault with the recording of a statement at the time of search, the Hon'ble Tribunal found that the statement was incorrectly recorded and held that they do not contain truth. 16. The AO while completing the regular assessments based the assessment only on such statements and disallowed the entire commission paid to the authorised dealers. The matter was initially decided by the CIT(A), Visakhapatnam, wherein for the asst. yrs. 1980-81, 1981-82, 1982-83, 1983-84, 1988-89 and 1989-90, the addition was totally deleted and for the asst. yrs. 1986-87 and 1987-88 it was partially sustained. However, for all the assessment years, the CIT(A) held that the statements cannot be the basis for making any addition. The Department filed appeals before the Hon'ble Tribunal for the asst. yrs. 1980-81, 1983-84, 1988-89 and 1989-90 whereas for the asst. yrs. 1986-87 and 1987-88 both the Department and the assessee are in appeal. In the meantime during the course of assessment proceedings, for the asst. yr. 1988-89, the AO contacted the retail dealers for whom the authorised dealers were booking the orders. It is not known how many such dealers were contacted by the AO but utilised 28 statements in the assessment order. The AO did not mention the number of retail dealers who were contacted. The gist of such statements is that the retailers have no knowledge of the authorised dealers firms to whom the commission was paid by the assessee. Even the statement of the authorised dealers firms were not properly examined. Our attention was invited to the statement of Shri C. Narayanan Menon, the copy of which is available at pp. 257 to 260 of paper book No. 1. From this statement it is apparently clear that the orders are to be booked through the representative of the authorised dealer. The relevant question and answer in this regard is reproduced as under : Mr. Bhaskar is related to the Bhaskar Enterprises that is one of the authorised dealer firm. Copies of the statements were not provided to the assessee and the authorities sought to utilise such statements to support their view for all the assessment years under consideration. The Hon'ble Tribunal found it necessary to set-aside all the assessments to the file of the AO for reassessment in view of the statements recorded from the 28 retailers. 17. The present appeals are against the set-aside assessment made by the AO. During the set-aside assessment proceedings for all the assessment years, the AO based his assessments on the statements recorded from the managing director and the managing partners during the course of search and the statements recorded from the 28 retailers relevant for the asst. yr. 1988-89. It is submitted that insofar as statements recorded at the time of search are concerned, the Hon'ble Tribunal for the asst. yrs. 1984-85 and 1985-86 held that they are not true and cannot be relied upon for making any addition. The said decision of the Third Member of the Hon'ble Tribunal became final. Insofar, as the statements of 28 retailers are concerned, 11 persons could be produced before the AO, affidavits of 8 persons and the 11 persons who were produced were provided and the balance of 9 persons could not be produced as they were not available at the relevant point of time (out of 9, 6 persons died and 3 persons discontinued the business). From the statements recorded and the affidavits filed, it is clear that authorised dealer firms have really carried on the business activity. The AO without examining the dealers for eliciting the facts, started examining them to know who paid the travelling expenses to come to Visakhapatnam and with whom they stayed at Visakhapatnam, etc., which are not relevant to the point. The retailers have come to Visakhapatnam for appearing before the AO in connection with the assessment proceedings of the assessee-company. As the retailers came to Visakhapatnam at the instance of the assessee, the company took care of them, which is not an unusual practice. The AO did not properly elicit the details. The AO even rejected cross-examination in respect of 9 out of 11 persons produced before him. The AO did not examine any retailer relating to the other assessment years except for the asst. yr. 1988-89. He applied the impression carried by him by taking into consideration the 28 statements in completing the assessments for the asst. yrs. 1980-81 to 1983-84, 1986-87 to 1989-90. Further, the AO did not bring on record any further evidence as to how many persons were examined. The AO thus rejected the claim of the assessee that the commission payments were genuine and disallowed the entire payment of commission. 18. The learned CIT(A) held that insofar as the genuineness of payment of commission is concerned, the matter was already decided by the Hon'ble Tribunal for the asst. yrs. 1984-85 and 1985-86. As submitted in the earlier part of the submissions, the Hon'ble Third Member of the Tribunal held that the payment of commission has to be considered as genuine. While deciding the issue, the Hon'ble Tribunal took into consideration the fact that except the statement recorded at the time of search and seizure operations from Shri K.V.R. Chowdhary, there was no information on record to suggest that the payment of commission was not genuine. It was further submitted that the Hon'ble Tribunal held that the statement of Shri K.V.R. Chowdhary is not based on any fact available at the time of search and seizure operations and therefore, untrue. In the circumstances, the learned CIT followed the decision of the Hon'ble Tribunal for the asst. yrs. 1984-85 and 1985-86 and held that the payment of commission is genuine. According to the CIT(A), the statements recorded from the 28 retail dealers do not reveal that the commission payment is not genuine. Therefore, the CIT(A) held that the payment of commission is genuine on the ground that the AO based his addition only on the statements recorded at the time of search, which are held to be not true and the statement of 28 retailers, which was successfully rebutted by the assessee. However, the CIT(A) is of the view that the quantum of commission is excessive and, therefore, partly allowed the commission. 19. In the Departmental appeal, the Department relied on the statements recorded at the time of search, the letter of the managing director written to the CIT, Central, Bangalore, the minutes of the meeting of the board of directors of the company to contend that the payment of commission is not genuine. The learned Authorised Representative submitted the written submissions on some of the observations made by the AO as under : C. Income-tax assessment of the authorised dealer firms : D. Trade Practice : Yours faithfully
 Sd/- (V.H. Gangal)
 CIT
 Karnataka (Central), Bangalore" F. In their order, the Hon'ble Tribunal observed that the statement recorded from the managing director is not based on facts and, therefore, it has to be considered as incorrect. The Hon'ble Tribunal rejected the statement given by the managing director Sri K.V.R. Chowdhary as not consisting of truth. G. The CBDT vide Instruction No. 286/2/2003-IT (Inv.) dt. 10th March, 2003 observed that disclosures taken at the time of search without corroborative evidence cannot be considered for the purpose of assessment. In fact in the said instruction, the CBDT advised the authorised officers not to obtain such declarations without any basis and advised the authorities to collect details and information. H. Managing partners of Sri Bhaskara Auto Service and Sri Prabhakara Enterprises viz., Sri Bamidipati Nageswara Rao and Sri Ch. V.V. Satyanarayana (a) These two persons were never earlier subjected to search proceedings. (b) Initially they admitted that for the services rendered by them commission was paid by the assessee. (c) They were continuously harassed for more than twelve hours and under coercion and threats, statements were extracted from them to the effect that the said firms were only name-sake and that the amounts were paid back to the company. (d) Immediately after search operations, they wrote letters to the IT Department stating that (i) under coercion and threats they were made to give the above stated averments. (ii) In fact for services rendered by these firms, commission was paid to them and thus they retracted from what they were forced to admit during the search operations. (e) The Hon'ble Tribunal has considered the above facts and held that on the basis of the depositions given by them during the search, no adverse inference could be drawn to disallow the commission payments. I. Sri D.P.K.L.N. Raju
 

He was the managing partner of Sri Bhanu Enterprises. He joined the said firm in October/November, 1987 and within few months, i.e., in March, 1988, the said firm was dissolved. Earlier he was not a partner in the said firm. Therefore, he could not give information about other partners and their investments, etc. He also stated that the firm conducted the activity of receiving and paying commission to the representatives. This indicates that the firms did some activity with reference to the sales representatives. J. What was found in the search operations : 20. Thus, it was vehemently submitted that during the course of search and seizure operations, the authorities found the books of account at the premises of the assessee and the dealers. The books of account indicate the payment of commission by the assessee and receipt by the dealers. The dealers in their books of account appropriated the receipt towards their expenditure. The expenditure incurred by them was also supported by the vouchers, etc. found at the time of search. The balance of profit amount was divided among the partners. The amount of deposit paid by the authorised dealers firms to the assessee also was recorded in the books of account. All the data support the claim of the assessee. In view of the provisions of Section 132(4A) , the presumption is in favour of the assessee. According to the said provision, the books of account and other documents found at the time of search are to be considered as true. Further, no information contrary to the same was found. Therefore, it is not correct for the AO or the CIT(A) to hold any contrary view. 21. The amounts were paid in accordance with the agreements entered into. According to the agreement, the assessee pays 25 per cent direct to the retail dealers and 15 per cent on the balance of 75 per cent was paid to the authorised dealers, out of the said 15 per cent on the balance of 75 per cent of the sale price, the authorised dealers had to pay commission, incurred expenditure on its own establishment, remuneration to field representatives, their travelling expenses and bad debts. Attention is invited to the P&L a/c appearing at the paper book to stress that the authorised dealer has duly shown the income and has paid the heavy taxes imposed on them. There is also no relationship between the companies or its directors with the partners of the authorised dealer firms. Neither the AO nor the CIT(A) has brought on record any information to the effect that the payments made by the assessee are in any way excessive compared to the similar amounts paid in the market. Therefore, the CIT(A) is not justified in holding that the amounts are in any way excessive. 22. It was further submitted that the provisions of Section 40A(2) have no application to the facts of the case. None of the partners of the authorised dealer firms are relatives of any of the directors of the company. Therefore, the AO does not establish the relationship between the assessee-company and the authorised dealer firms. Further, the amount was paid in accordance with the trade practice and the assessee established the same. The authorities did not establish that the amounts were excessive compared to the amounts paid in the market. Therefore, it is submitted that provisions of Section 40A(2) have no application. When the provisions of the said section are not applicable, the learned CIT(A) is not justified in disallowing a part of the expenditure incurred, for, it is decided by the judicial pronouncements that it is the prerogative of the traders to incur the expenditure and the prudence of the Department cannot be substituted for the business needs of the trader. 23. It was further submitted that the authorities have allowed the deduction for the similar commission paid to the authorised dealer namely, Mehta Traders, Bombay, as genuine and was in accordance with the trade practice. Therefore, it cannot be said that the commission paid to the authorised dealers at Kakinada are in any way excessive when the payments made are at the same percentage at which the same were made to Mehta Traders of Bombay. 24. In brief it was submitted that while completing the set-aside assessment proceedings, the learned D.C. has disallowed the commission paid by the assessee to the three Kakinada based authorised dealers firms : 25. While making the aforesaid submissions, the learned Authorised Representative also relied on the various case laws. On the last date of the hearing, the learned Authorised Representative again filed written submissions in brief as under the respect of all these appeals, the written submissions are mentioned hereunder : The board's resolution dt. 4th March, 1988 did not ratify the statement obtained on 10th Feb., 1988/11th Feb., 1988 by the authorities from the managing director. The act done by the managing director after the board's resolution dt. 4th March, 1988 was to retract once again, from the statement so obtained at the time of search. The evidence collected at the time of search, support the claim of the assessee, that payment of the commission was made, and no material to the contrary was either found or brought to record by any authority. The statements recorded from the partners of the authorised dealer firms were not supported by any material or documents at the time of search and the same were retracted by them, immediately after. The three-Member decision of Tribunal held that the said statements cannot be relied upon. They were not examined after retraction at the time of assessment proceedings. (a) The statements of 28 retail dealers recorded also support the claim of the assessee. All of them stated that the representatives of the assessee-company approached them. The authorised dealer firms and their employees are also representatives of the assessee-company. The retailers of Chennai, had stated that one Mr. Bhaskaran, approached them. He was an employee representative of one of the authorised dealers firms. The assessee wanted the authorised dealers firms to use the trade name of "SRMT" before the dealers for canvassing its products, as the assessee-company, did not want the names of the authorised dealers firms to be advertised at its cost. The assessee submits that all the authorised dealers firms are outsiders, not related to the company in any way. (b) Out of the 28, the assessee filed clarificatory affidavits of 19 retail dealers and produced 11 of them confirming the above fact. Therefore, there is nothing adverse in 28 retail dealers to the assessee. Similar payment of commission made under similar circumstances to Mehta Trading Co., is accepted by the authorities. 26. In the circumstances and in view of the submission made, during the course of hearing and written submissions, the assessee submits that it proved that genuineness of payment of commission to the authorised dealer firms. Insofar as restriction of allowance is concerned, it is submitted that CIT(A) did not bring on record any information that the payment of commission was in excess of the business needs. Further, the net payments made, work out to about 6 to 7 per cent [15 per cent of 75 per cent, i.e., 11.25 per cent (-) 5 per cent, further commission provided to the retailers] by the authorised dealer firms, which is not excessive. Their duties include sending representatives, booking orders, and collecting the dues. Instances where losses on bad debts were also suffered by the authorised dealer firms are also brought on record. In these circumstances, the assessee submits that the payment of commission is not excessive as observed by the CIT(A). 27. It is further submitted that the following decisions support the submission made by the assessee that the incurring of expenditure for the business purposes is a business decision taken by the assessee and the prudence or otherwise of such decision cannot be interfered by the IT authorities, by substituting their view : (Commission paid to sole selling agent) ( x) CIT v. Vijayalakshmi Mills Ltd. , . 28. Insofar as the validity of the statement recorded at the time of search were concerned, the assessee relies the observation made by the Chellaiah Committee and the clarificatory Circular No. 286/2/2003-IT (INVN.) dt. 10th March, 2003 of the CBDT. 29. The learned Departmental Representative on the other hand vehemently contended that no services were rendered by the authorised dealers firms. These firms were not genuine. The assessee was directly booking the orders through its own sales representative. The goods were supplied directly and the payments are received directly by the assessee. The statements of 28 dealers recorded by the Revenue clearly proves that the authorised dealers firm were not genuine firms and they were not rendering any services to the assessee. Under Section 37(1) only those expenses which have been incurred wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the business are to be allowed as deduction. The commission paid to the authorised dealers firm was accepted by the managing director as sham transaction in his statement dt. 10th Feb., 1988 during the course of search. This statement also proves that these authorised dealers firms were created with the object of reducing the tax liability of the assessee-company. The statement of the managing director is duly corroborated by the statement of 28 dealers. Accordingly, the Revenue has duly discharged its onus that the expenditure by way of commission paid was not genuinely incurred by the assessee. The learned Departmental Representative placed reliance on the order of the AO and submitted that the commission paid should not be allowed. The CIT(A) was not correct in law even disallowing part of the commission. Thus, it was vehemently submitted that the order of the CIT(A) be set-aside and that of the AO be restored. 30. We have considered the rival submissions perused the materials on record. We have also gone through the orders of the tax authorities below and also the case laws cited and relied on before us. The only issue involved in all these appeals is whether the commission paid by the assessee-company in each of the assessment years to the authorised dealers is allowable under Section 37(1) of the IT Act or not. There is no dispute that during the asst. yrs. 1984-85 and 1985-86 the commission paid by the assessee-company was allowed and the deductibility of such commission has been confirmed by this Tribunal in ITA Nos. 2000 and 2471/H/1987 and 1502-1622/H/1989 vide its order dt. 4th Jan., 1991. In all the years under appeal before us, when the issue about the deductibility of the commission paid to the authorised dealers firm had come before the Tribunal, the Revenue produced certain evidences in the form of statements recorded under Section 131 in respect of 28 dealers in March, 1991 at the back of the assessee during the course of the proceedings for the asst. yr. 1988-89. The Tribunal since noted that the assessee had not been provided the copies of these evidences for his rebuttal by the Revenue and these are the additional evidences brought on record for the first time, set-aside all these assessments under dispute vide its order dt. 13th Oct., 1994 with the direction to the AO to examine the claim of the assessee, after giving the proper opportunity to the assessee. The relevant directions so given by the Hon'ble Tribunal are produced hereinabove in the preceding paragraphs. 31. The AO asked the assessee to produce the said dealer in the set-aside proceedings. The assessee produced 11 dealers out of the 28 dealers from whom statements under Section 131 were recorded in the course of assessment proceedings for the asst. yr. 1988-89. The 11 dealers also filed the affidavits with the AO affirming the clarification on the disposition made before the IT authorities in March, 1991. The assessee also filed the affidavits from 9 dealers who could not appear before the AO. In these affidavits, these parties affirmed various services rendered by the authorised dealer firms to the assessee by booking orders on their behalf. In respect of the 8 retail dealers, the assessee neither produced them nor filed the affidavit as some of them had wound up their businesses and some of them expired subsequently. The assessee also produced 3 sales representatives one each from each of the authorised dealer firms who were appointed by the various dealer firms as per the agreements on commission basis for booking orders for the assessee's products. These sales representatives also filed their affidavits before the AO stating that they worked for the authorised dealer firms. These three sales representatives were in addition to the 28 persons from whom statements were recorded by the Department in March, 1991. The AO after analysing the statement of the 11 retail dealers produced by the assessee as well as the statement recorded from them in March, 1991 concluded that the existence of the authorised dealer firm were not genuine and these dealers tried to give statements in favour of the assessee. The AO also rejected the statement of the three sales representatives representing each of the authorised dealers firms. All these 11 dealers and 3 sales representatives were also cross-examined on behalf of the assessee. The cross-examination revealed that the authorised dealers firms were booking orders for the assessee through the representatives. The AO rejected the statement of the 11 dealers, 3 sales representatives and along with their respective affidavits. The affidavits of the 9 dealers, which were filed by the assessee were also rejected by the AO. The AO before rejecting the affidavits filed by the assessee and also by the various dealers did not cross-examine them and relied on the statements recorded in March, 1991 for the 28 dealers and concluded that the authorised dealers firms were not in existence genuinely and were simply set up and used by the assessee as a facade for reducing its tax liability and therefore, he disallowed the commission paid by the assessee to the authorised dealer firms relying on the findings given by the AO in the original assessment orders. The AO rejected the statements of the dealers mainly on the basis that most of the witnesses who had filed affidavits were obliged to the assessee as they served with the assessee for a long period and some of them are still serving the assessee and, therefore, the assessee might have exercised pressure on these people to give the statement in favour of the assessee during the course of the set-aside proceedings. In our opinion this consideration is totally irrelevant while examining the genuinety of the affidavit. The statements recorded in March, 1991 were at the back of the assessee. This is a settled law that a statement recorded at the back of the assessee cannot be used as an evidence against the assessee. The parties which were examined in March, 1991 had categorically stated on cross-examination and also on their re-examination by the AO that the services were rendered by the authorised dealer firm to the assessee. We have also gone through the finding of the AO in which the AO took the view that the authorised dealer firms were bogus. These findings in our opinion are not based on the cogent evidences or material on record. The AO has not raised any direct question to the dealer regarding the rendering of the services by the authorised dealers. 32. We also noted that while disallowing the commission, the AO also relied on statement recorded on 11th Dec., 1988 from the managing director, Shri K.V.R. Chowdhary ignoring the fact that the Tribunal has already deleted the additions on the basis of this statement by its order dt. 4th Jan., 1991 by the Third Member even ignoring the basic cardinal principle of law that the order of the Third Member is binding not on him but also on the appellate authorities consisting of we and CIT(A). We noted that the CIT(A) has also asked for the remand report from the AO and in the remand report specifically following two points were asked. (a) To re-examine the managing partner or any other partner of the 3 authorised dealer firms and verify the claim of the assessee regarding the payment of the alleged commission. (b) To pinpoint the exact position and answer in the statements recorded from the 11 dealers and 3 field representatives under Section 131 in the course of the set-aside proceedings on the basis of which, he came to the conclusion that the payment of commission to the 3 authorised dealer firms as claimed by the assessee for the relevant assessment year was bogus. 33. From the order of the CIT(A), we noted that 2 remand reports dt. 29th Dec., 1997 and 10th Feb., 1994 were submitted by the AO. In the remand report, the AO made the following comments on the claim of the assessee for the commission paid to the authorised dealer : 34. We also noted from the order of the CIT(A) that, the CIT(A) under paras 3.2.5, 3.2.6 and 3.2.7 has accepted the genuineness of the authorised dealers firms to whom the commission was paid. The registration has duly been granted to these firms under the IT Act as the genuinety of these firms has been finally upheld by the Tribunal vide their order for the relevant years. The learned Departmental Representative did not produce any evidence to the contrary before us which may prove that the authorised dealer firms were not genuine except the retracted statement of the managing director of the assessee-company and the statement of 28 dealers recorded in March, 1991, at the back of the assessee during the course of the assessment proceedings for the asst. yr. 1988-89. We noted that the commission had been paid to all the authorised dealers firms through cheques. All the authorised dealer firms are the regular income-tax assessees. They are filing their respective IT returns regularly. All the commission received from the assessee-company has been duly disclosed by the authorised dealer firms in their books of account and in the P&L a/c, copies of which were filed before us. These authorised dealers firms had also paid the income-tax on the income so disclosed. The dealers clarified in their affidavit and accepted that they used to give the orders through the representatives of the authorised dealer firms. Even they have accepted that the representative used to book orders on the printed form containing the names of the authorised dealers. Merely that the assessee could not produce affidavit of the 8 dealers as some of them has wounded up their business and some of them had expired, does not mean that the statement recorded by the AO at the back of the assessee will be relied on when all the parties which were examined subsequently had accepted the genuinely of the transaction. We are also of the view that generally when the orders are booked through the authorised dealer, the representatives although may be sent by the authorised dealers firms but they do not disclose their identity as coming on behalf of the authorised dealer firms but they generally represent before the customers as if they are representing the company who are the supplier or the manufacturer of the product. It not only generates confidence of the product in the purchaser but even the manufacturer also do not prefer that the third party may control their market. Therefore, when the turnover from marketing relating to own production increased from 4.94 crores to 17.21 crores, the services of the authorised dealers were stopped otherwise the benefits would have been availed of by the authorised dealers firms. 35. The Tribunal under para 41 of its order dt. 13th Oct., 1994 has observed that the assessee was not provided with the full copy of the statement. The assessee has also obtained letter from 10 out of the 28 dealers wherein they have stated they have been carrying on trade in automobile spare-parts in Madras and among the products they were dealing in spare-parts manufactured by the assessee were also dealt in. The representative of the various dealer firms of the assessee used to visit them at regular intervals and canvas the products of their principles and used to persuade them for placing orders through them and in fact they were placing orders on the forms of relevant authorised dealers. It appears that this fact has not been considered by the AO although there was specific direction to consider this aspect also. 36. We find force in the submissions of the learned Authorised Representative that whenever a dealer gives the orders to a sales representative, he is least bothered whether the said sales representative represent some agent appointed by the manufacturer or the manufacturer's sales representative will always say that he has come on behalf of the manufacturer company, because otherwise the sales representative will not be able to procure the orders so successfully. We find that in the statement recorded in 1991 as produced in the assessment order, the dealers had spelled out that they booked the order for the assessee's product through the sales representative visited to them. 37. We do not find any substance in the contention of the AO that the expenditure incurred on salaries, offices, travelling and bank charges by the authorised dealer was very less and the incurrence of less expenditure by the authorised dealer firms cannot be a basis for treating the authorised dealers firms to be non-genuine. But in our opinion this will counter the observations of the AO that the authorised dealers firms were created to evade the tax because in case the authorised dealers firms have debited less expenses their taxable income get increased and they have to pay more taxes. 38. No evidence has been brought on record that the amount as has been paid by the assessee-company by way of commission to the authorised dealers firms were received back by the directors of the assessee-company, although there had been affective search at the premises of the assessee and its director and also at the premises of the authorised dealer firm and its partners. The statement of the managing partner, one of the authorised dealer firm which was recorded during the course of remand report also proves that the authorised firms have received the commission and the representative of the authorised dealers were attending the booking of the orders. 39. The observations that whatever canvassing and other services claimed to have been referred by the authorised dealer firms was in fact done by the assessee's field representatives in our opinion is based without bringing any material on record. The copy of the order forms proves the booking of the orders by the representatives of authorised dealer firm. There is also no material brought on record that these representatives who booked the orders represent the assessee, not the authorised dealer firms. The authorised dealers were not supplying the goods and the AO could not be able to understand that the duties of the authorised dealers were restricted to the booking of the orders, promotion of the assessee's products and the recovery of the amount against the supply made by the assessee for the orders booked by the authorised dealer. We have noted from the copy of the balance sheet and P&L a/c that the authorised firms were actually made responsible for the bad debts incurred in respect of the supplies made to the dealers on the orders booked through the representative of the authorised dealers firms. This proves that the authorised dealers were responsible for the recovery of the debts. 40. The AO has also not brought any evidence on record that the order form or the credit notes were not there when the orders of the products of the assessee were placed by the dealers and were not available with the assessee even during the course of the search. Also the acceptance of the order form/credit note was not denied when the orders were booked by the representative of the authorised dealer in the order form consisting of the names and addresses of the authorised dealer. In our opinion, this evidence cannot be rejected merely on the basis of probabilities without bringing any evidence to the contrary on record which may prove that the orders were directly placed by the dealers to the assessee. The search has taken place at the premises of the assessee as well as of the authorised dealer but the Revenue could not find any material which may prove that the authorised dealers were not in existence and the orders were not placed through them. 41. Hon'ble Third Member in its order dt. 4th Jan., 1991, has accepted under para 13 that there is a trade practice to give commission to the authorised dealers firms. Even the AO has allowed the deduction of the commission paid to one authorised dealer firms M/s Mehta Trader, Mumbai, on the same terms and conditions, proves the trade practice prevalent in the trade. When the company grows in our opinion, due to the principle of span of control, it becomes necessary for them to appoint the authorised dealers on commission basis so that they may be motivated to procure more business for getting the more commission. It is a human tendency not to work without any incentive. 42. We do not find any substance on the observation of the AO that the assessee has incurred the expenses for bringing the witnesses for production before the AO, therefore, they were bound to oblige the assessee. When the assessee is asked to produce the witness, the assessee, in our opinion, is bound to bring the witness if he has come from far away places, the assessee has not committed any wrong if he has arranged for the travelling and the stay of the witnesses. Even a witness is entitled to claim the expenditure in view of the provision laid down under the Civil Procedure Code. Therefore, treating the commission paid non-genuine on this basis is not justified. Most of the observations made by the AO are not relevant for determining the genuinety of the transaction. 43. Now coming to the statement of the managing director of the assessee-company, Sri K.V.R. Chowdary, which was recorded on 10th Feb., 1988 and continued upto 11th Feb., 1988, we find that there are different dates written on the statement upto p. 12, the signature of the managing director were taken on 10th Feb., 1988, while from pp. 13 to 15, signatures were taken on 11th Feb., 1988. This is a fact that the recording of the statement was started at 8.45 a.m. on 10th Feb., 1988. Q. No. 48, which relates to the commission as has been reproduced in the preceding paragraphs was signed on 11th Feb., 1988, while the other questions were signed on 10th Feb., 1988. We find force in the submission of the learned Authorised Representative that this question and its answer was signed on 11th Feb., 1988. From the photocopy of the statement, which was filed before us also proves that in all the pages, the witnesses have signed on 10th Feb., 1988. This change in the date by the witnesses and by the deponent clearly proves that the answer relating to question was kept pending and no doubt undue influence must have been exercised on the assessee, especially when no material was found during the course of search to prove that the commission paid by the assessee-company was a bogus one and no incriminating material disclosing the undisclosed income of the assessee was found. If the statements to this effect have not been taken, the search would have failed. The assessee is a public limited company and is having turnover in crores. Therefore, the commission could not be paid merely at the instance of the managing director without getting it approved by the board of directors. The managing director was 62 years old and it is quite natural, a person may get exhausted after getting grilled over 16 hours and when he was not made to sleep throughout the night and was continued under the cross-questioning. The circumstances under which statement was recorded and the change in the date over the statement and also the subsequent letter dt. 1st March, 1988 and 23rd March, 1988 written by the managing director, Mr. K.V.R. Chowdary retracting the statement proves that the statement was taken from him regarding the commission paid by adopting the pressure techniques, otherwise the statement could have been recorded at one length. The learned Authorised Representative was at pain in emphasizing that the statement had been procured from the assessee under coercion and pressure and contrary to the CBDT instruction issued in March, 2003 pursuant to Kelkar Committee report. We find from the CBDT instructions and Kelkar Committee report that the prevalence of practice amongst the search parties to obtain forced confession of undisclosed income from the assessee. In our opinion, the preposition of law is well settled that the admission made by the assessee during the course of search constitutes substantial evidence in view of the provisions of Sections 17 to 21 of the Evidence Act, but such admission cannot be considered to be conclusive evidence against the assessee. In this regard, we noted the following propositions laid down in various case laws : 44. In view of the aforesaid case laws, in our opinion, the admission made by the assessee under Section 132(4) during the course of the search is not a conclusive evidence and such admission can be used as an evidence provided corroborating evidences are there on record. The assessee in this case has already retracted the statement. Although, there had been search in the case of the assessee but the Revenue could not bring any evidence or material on record except the statement of the dealers, which were recorded in March, 1991 and these statements clearly stated that the orders were placed by them through the sales representatives. These statements were although recorded at the back of the assessee. When these persons were cross-examined they clearly accepted about the booking of the orders on the order forms belonging to the authorised dealers through the representatives. Affidavits were also filed before the AO which were rejected by him without cross-examining the deponents contrary to the decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Mehta Parikh & Co. v. CIT (1956) 30 ITR 181 (SC). Thus, the Revenue has not brought any corroborative evidences. The onus in our opinion is on the Revenue especially when the presumption under Section 132(4A) is available in this case on the basis of the books of account found at the time of search in favour of the assessee as discussed by us subsequently. We find that this Tribunal vide order dt. 4th Jan., 1991 passed by the Third Member for the asst. yrs. 1984-85 and 1985-86 under paras 9 to 11 of its order has not accepted the statement of Sri K.V.R. Chowdary, managing director of the company to be true. The judgment of the Third Member is also binding on us. Thus we are of the firm view that no disallowance can be made on the basis of the statement of the managing director recorded under Section 132(4) of the IT Act which was subsequently retracted and when the Tribunal has already deleted the additions made on the basis of retracted statement of the managing director. 45. We have also gone through the provision of Section 132(4A) on which the learned Authorised Representative has relied, we find that the presumption could be said as stipulated under the section to arise when it is established that any books of account, other documents, money, bullion, jewellery or other valuable articles or things are found in the possession or control of any person in the course of the search. The presumption stipulated are (a) that such books of account, other documents, money, bullion, jewellery or other valuable articles or thing belong or belongs to such person, (b) that the contents of such books of account and other documents are true and (c) that the signature and every other part of such books of account and other documents which purport to be in the handwriting of any other particular person or which may reasonably be assumed to have been signed by, or to be in the handwriting of any particular person, are in that persons handwriting, and in the case of a document, stamped, executed or attested, that it was duly stamped and executed or attested by the person by whom it purports to have been so executed or attested. These presumptions lay down the rule of evidence, which are applicable in the case of the search. On the basis of these presumptions, the books of account, documents and vouchers found in the possession of the assessee and which contain the entries relating to the commission paid are deemed to be correct and true. The presumptions laid down in the section are rebuttable which means the onus is on the party who wants to prove otherwise that is presumed. Since the assessee has duly entered into the agreement with the authorised dealers firms, paid them the commission and for which copies of the order forms, proof of the payment of the commission, were duly found in the possession of the assessee during the course of the search, the onus was on the Department to prove that the vouchers, books of account and entries therein regarding the commission paid and the copies of the orders forms proving that the orders were booked through authorised dealers were not correct. The AO in this case has not brought any cogent material or evidence on record except the retracted statement of the managing director of the assessee and the 28 statements of the dealers, which were also proved otherwise when the opportunity was given to the assessee. Therefore, in the absence of the contrary evidence being brought on record that the books of account and the vouchers were not correct, the presumption available under Section 132(4A) will be in favour of the assessee and the commission paid to the authorised dealers as recorded in the regular books of the assessee will be presumed to be correct and true. 46. Now, coming to the relevant provision in which the assessee claimed deduction is Section 37(1) of the IT Act, 1961. Section 37(1) reads as under : 47. From the aforesaid section, it is apparently clear that various expenditures to be eligible for deduction under Section 37(1) must fulfil the following conditions : 48. In the case of the assessee, there is no doubt that the commission paid by the assessee is not covered by the provision of Sections 30 to 36 . There is also no dispute that the expenditure incurred by the assessee is of revenue nature and not of capital in nature. There is also no dispute about the fact that the expenditure has been incurred during the respective previous years. There is also no dispute that this expenditure has not been incurred for any purpose which is an offence or which is prohibited by law. The expenditure so incurred by the assessee-company cannot be regarded to be the personal expenditure of the assessee. There is no evidence on record that these expenses were incurred to meet out the personal needs of the assessee-company. The company is always incorporated for the purpose of carrying on the business as stipulated under its object clause laid down in the memorandum of association. The company so incorporated is not human being, which may have personal needs. The company is an artificial person incorporated under the legislature by having a separate entity. Although by having a separate entity; it may work as a human being in its own name but it does not require any expenditure to be incurred, as a human being requires for meeting out its personal needs. Therefore, the expenditure incurred by the assessee-company cannot be regarded to be the personal expenditure of the assessee. The personal expenditure of the management of the human beings who are controlling the company cannot be regarded to be the personal expenses of the assessee-company. It may be remuneration or perquisite in the hands of the management of the human beings but it cannot be regarded to be the personal expenses of an incorporated body. 49. The only dispute in this case relates to the fact whether the commission paid can be regarded to have been incurred wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the business or profession of the assessee-company. Before 1939, the phrase used was 'expenditure incurred solely for the purpose of earning profit'. The omnibus provision of Section 37 as amended by 1939 Act allows of 'expenditure incurred wholly and exclusively in connection with such business/profession' as long as no personal/capital element is involved. The scope of the term 'for the purpose of business' is surely wider than the term 'for the purpose of earning profit'. In our opinion, the IT Department cannot prescribe what expenditure an assessee should incur and under what circumstances. Every businessman knows his interest best. The assessee may not be a prudent man and yet an expenditure incurred voluntarily for the purpose of the business would be allowable under Section 37(1) . 50. The Hon'ble apex Court in the case of Eastern Investment Ltd. v. CIT , laid down the following principles for evaluation of 'wholly and exclusively for the purpose of business' : 51. The expression "wholly and exclusively" in Section 37(1) does not mean "necessarily". Ordinarily, it is for the assessee to decide whether any expenditure should be incurred in the course of its or his business. Such expenditure may be incurred voluntarily and without any necessity, and if is incurred for promoting the business and to earn profits, the assessee can claim deduction, therefore, under Section 37(1) even though there was no compelling necessity to incur such expenditure. The Supreme Court, in the case of CIT v. Malayalam Plantation , held that it is not only expenditure which directly results in benefit or advantage to the assessee's business that is entitled to deduction, but also any expenditure which is incurred with a view to facilitating the carrying on of the business. 52. We do agree with the submissions of the learned Authorised Representative that it is not open to the Department to prescribe what expenditure the assessee should incur and in what circumstances he should incur that expenditure. Every businessman knows his interest best as this has been clearly laid down by the Hon'ble apex Court in the case of CIT v. Dhanrajgiri Raja Narsinghgiri (supra) relied on by learned Authorised Representative. No doubt every businessman is the best judge of his business expediency but the AO in our opinion has the right to know whether the expenditure has been incurred for business purposes or not or whether it has been incurred for other extraneous consideration. Similar view has been taken by the Hon'ble Rajasthan High Court in the case of Jaipur Electro (P) Ltd. v. CIT . The Hon'ble Bombay High Court has also taken the similar view in the case of Ramanand Sagar v. Dy. CIT in which it was held that the mere fact that the payment has been made under a contract is not conclusive of expenditure being laid down wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the business. Once doubt arises about the bona fide nature of the payment, it is necessary to look into the necessary circumstances such as relationship of the payee to the assessee, the general standard of similar expenditure in comparable business, the true worth of the services or goods in question and so forth. It is also open to the AO to question the reality of the expenditure, i.e., the true nature of the payment, the true consideration for it and so forth. Once the AO considers the payment and the purpose to be bona fide, it is not open for him to substitute his own judgment what is the reasonable quantum of expenditure for the assessee. The AO can only decide whether the expenditure is real, whether it relates to the business and is wholly spent for that purpose. In applying the test of commercial expediency, for determining whether the expenditure was wholly and exclusively laid out for the purpose of the' business the reasonableness of the expenditure has to be judged from the point of view of the businessman and not the Revenue CIT v. Walchand & Co. (P) Ltd. (supra). The similar view has been taken in the cases of J.K. Woollen Manufacturers v. CIT ( supra), Aluminium Corporation of India Ltd. v. CIT and CIT v. Panipat Woollen & General Mills Co. Ltd. . Considering the true import of the expression "wholly and exclusively" it was observed by the apex Court in Sassoon J. David & Co. (P) Ltd. v. CIT . that the same does not mean "necessarily". Ordinarily, it is for the assessee to decide whether any expenditure should be incurred in the course of its business. Such expenditure may be incurred voluntarily and without any necessity and if it is incurred for promoting the business and to earn profits, the assessee can claim deduction under the relevant provision even though there was no compelling necessity to incur such expenditure. The fact that somebody other than the assessee is also benefited by the expenditure should not come in the way of an expenditure being allowed by way of deduction under Section 37 of the Act if it otherwise satisfies the tests laid down by law. The bill (sic) read "any expenditure" laid out or expended wholly, necessarily and exclusively for the purposes of the business or profession shall be allowed in view of the protests raised by the taxpayers the word "necessarily" came to be dropped. It will be also noticed that in CIT v. Chandulal Keshavlal & Co. , it was observed as follows : 53. If we apply the principles of the law as enunciated in the various judgments, we are of the opinion that once the AO finds that the assessee has bona fidely incurred the expenditure for the business, the AO cannot decide the quantum of the expenditure to be incurred by the assessee. In the case before us, the AO disallowed the commission because he finds that the assessee has not genuinely incurred the expenditure for the purpose of the business but this finding of the AO was not accepted by the CIT(A) and, the CIT(A) although accepted the genuineness of the expenditure but restricted the quantum of the expenditure incurred by the assessee. 54. In our opinion, the CIT(A) does not have the jurisdiction to decide the quantum of the expenditure which should be allowable to the assessee. Once the CIT(A) has given the finding that the expenses has been genuinely incurred by the assessee, the CIT(A) should have allowed full commission paid by the assessee. Neither the AO nor CIT(A) has brought out on record any evidence or material which may prove that the case of the assessee falls under Section 40A(2) of the IT Act. It is only the provision of Section 40A(2) , which gives a power to the Revenue to look into the reasonability of the expenses incurred by the assessee. Even the learned Departmental Representative did not contend before us that this is a payment covered under Section 40A(2) of the IT Act. We, therefore, set-aside the action of the CIT(A) of estimating the quantum of the commission paid by the assessee and allowing it on estimate basis. 55. Now coming to the case laws cited before us, in the case of Dalmia Cement Ltd. (supra) the Hon'ble Delhi High Court has held as under : 56. In the case of Raj Kumar Daya Shanker v. CIT (1972) Taxation 32(3)-49 (All), Hon'ble Allahabad High Court has held as under : Hon'ble Calcutta High Court in the case of J.K. Steel & Industries Ltd. v. CIT has held as under : Tribunal in the case of ITO v. Shakti Cables (ITA Nos . 2844 and 3695 of 1986 by Tribunal Delhi) (1990) 50 Taxman 329 (Del)(Mag) allowed commission paid by the assessee-firm, dealing with the State Government Department to commission agents for services rendered by them in respect of conveying information about tenders, getting bills passed and payments made, etc. in view of facts (i) that utilisation of services of such agents was common in assessee's line of business, (ii) there was increase in turnover of assessee for said assessment year, (iii) agents were not related to any of the partners, (iv) payment of commission was in pursuance of agreements with agents, and (v) all agents had confirmed having done agency work and obtained commission by account payee cheques. It was further held that it was not for the assessee to prove manner in which agents utilised payments of commission. Bombay Tribunal in the case of Bharat Bijlee Ltd. v. Dy. CIT (2001) 71 TTJ (Mumbai) 909 : (1999) 71 ITD 412 (Mumbai), when AO disallowed the assessees claim as not genuine in respect of commission paid to M/s R inspite of the following details submitted by assessee, the : 57. In the case of IAC v. Haryana Conductors Ltd. (1990) 50 Taxman 291 (Del)(Mag), where assessee-company paid commission to various parties by account payee cheques, which was duly confirmed by them and record showed that they had rendered services for which commission was paid, expenditure was deductible. Hon'ble apex Court in the case of Aluminium Corporation of India Ltd. v. CIT (supra) has held as under : 58. In view of our aforesaid legal position and the discussions we had in the preceding paragraphs and also the specific finding given by the CIT(A) and also the evidences brought on record by the assessee in respect of the authorised dealers firms in the form of their respective assessment orders, balance sheet, P&L a/c, the statements of 11 dealers produced by the assessee and also the affidavits filed in respect of 9 dealers along with 11 dealers for which the statements were recorded and the fact that the affidavits were rejected without cross-examining the deponents, we upheld the finding of the CIT(A) and do not agree with the finding of the AO that the authorised dealers firms to whom commission was paid by the assessee were not genuine firms. But the CIT(A) was not justified in view of the legal position to restrict the claim of the assessee for the commission paid at the best of his estimate. We, therefore, set-aside the order of the CIT(A) to that extent and direct the AO to allow the assessee deduction in respect of the commission paid by him to the authorised dealers in each of the assessment year while computing the income of the assessee under the head income from business. Thus, the grounds of appeal of the assessee in each of the impugned assessment year relating to the commission paid are allowed while the grounds of appeals of the Revenue on this issue stand dismissed. 59. In the result, the appeals of the assessee are allowed and that of the Revenue stand dismissed.