The criminal petition is filed for quash of the proceedings in

CC.No.131 of 2013 on the file of the Special Judge for Economic

Offences cum Additional Metropolitan Sessions Judge, Hyderabad. 2. Heard the counsel for the petitioner and the learned Public

Prosecutor appearing for the first respondent and the counsel for the

second respondent. 3. The counsel for the petitioner submits that this Court has

already passed orders in CRLP.Nos.8618 and 8835 of 2013 dated

22.12.2017, which hold good to this case also, as the facts are one

and the same. 4. The counsel for the respondents also does not deny the said

submission. They do not refute the contentions and do not state that

the facts of this case are different. 5. The petitioner herein is an auditor in A1 bank. This Court in

CRLP.Nos.8618 and 8835 of 2013 dated 22.12.2017, after considering

the rival contentions therein, which are the same contention in this

petition, held as under: The proviso clearly exempts banking company from the
application of sub-section (1) of Section 211 . Hence, even if a
balance sheet does not disclose true and fair facts of the state
of affairs of the company, a banking company cannot be
prosecuted under the Companies Act . There is no counter
argument to the said submission made by the petitioners'
counsel. 7. The next contention is that Section 628 of the Act does
not apply to the petitioners, as the balance sheet, which is
prepared under Section 211 of the Act, is hit by Section 211 and hence, the Banking Company having been exempted under
the proviso to Section 211(1) , Section 628 of the Act also does
not apply to the petitioners. 8. Section 628 of the Act is a penal provision not only for a
false statement but also for a false report. According to the
complaint, there was an auditor's report annexed to the
balance sheet, which contain false particulars. Hence, prima
facie, Section 628 of the Act applies. But the counsel raises an
objection for the case to be taken on file, on the ground that
there is no authorisation for the complainant to file complaint
against these petitioners, who are auditors. 9. The other contention is that Section 235 of the Act does
not authorise the ministry of corporate affairs or any member
of SFIO to summon the petitioner to give any evidence. Section 235 is extracted hereunder for ready reference: The Tribunal may, after giving the parties an
 opportunity of being heard, by order, declare that the
 affairs of the company ought to be investigated by an
 inspector or inspectors, and on such a declaration being
 made, the Central Government shall appoint one or more
 competent persons as inspectors to investigate the affairs
 of the company and to report thereon in such manner as
 the Central Government may direct." 10. According to the above provision, the Central
Government shall appoint one or more competent persons as
Inspectors, to investigate the affairs of the company and report
therein in such a manner as the Central Government may
direct. 11. The counsel takes this court through the order of the
Director of Serious Fraud Investigation, wherein it is mentioned
that on the basis of the report submitted by the Inspectors
appointed by the Central Government in exercise of its powers
under Section 235 of the Act, in respect of Global Trust bank
Limited, Ministry of Corporate affairs by virtue of a letter, dated
23.07.2012 authorised Serious Fraud Investigation Office to file
complaints in respect of offences committed by the company
and its Directors under the Act. 12. It is specific that the company and its Directors are the
persons against whom the complaint was directed to be filed.
The letter addressed by the Joint Director, Ministry of Corporate
Affairs, Government of India to the Director of Serious Fraud
Investigation, shows that the RBI is the Regulatory Authority of
the Bank and it has already filed complaint in the Court. It also
shows that it was taken note of, that regarding prosecution
under Section 628 of the Act, Section 211 exempts Banking
Company. SFIO was also advised to forward his
findings/charges to RBI for further necessary action. It was also 6 further advised to re-examine the issue of prosecution under Section 628 as to how it was applicable to the company, which
was a banking company. 13. While observing as such, SFIO was advised to initiate
prosecution against statutory auditors of relevant period under Section 227 read with Section 233 and under Section 628 of
Act. But, however, it states that the matter may further also be
referred to the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India to
initiate disciplinary action against the statutory auditors of the
Bank. 14. Section 227 of the Act only lays down the powers and
duties of auditors while Section 233 of the Act is a penal
provision for the auditors report or any document of the
company being signed or authenticated otherwise than in
conformity with the requirement of Sections 227 and 229 of the
Act. The material and the correspondence between the Ministry
of Corporate affairs and the SFIO would show that they were
conscious of the fact that the Act would not apply to the
Banking Company and that the Global Trust Bank is a banking
company. It was also conscious of the fact that Section 211 exempts the auditors from the application of sub-section (1) of Section 211 , thereby, Section 628 of the Act does not apply, as
the authorization to file the complaint is only with regard to the
company and its directors. 15. The counsel for R2 contends that the authorisation is
given not only to prosecute the company and its Directors but
also others, as the word 'etc' is used in the said authorisation.
No doubt, the authorisation, in the prologue mentions the word,
'etc'. But while authorising one D.A. Sampath, who is the
complainant herein, it did not specify that apart from Company
and Directors, others also should be prosecuted. Hence, the
word, 'etc' cannot be understood to mean that prosecution
against others was also intended by virtue of the said
authorisation. Nothing prevents the authorisation to clearly
specify the persons, against whom complaint is directed to be
filed. However, this court was hesitant to allow the petition
with regard to the offence under Section 227 of the Act simply
on the ground that the authorization was not there, with a 7 doubt that the said error can be rectified subsequently by
 obtaining proper authorisation to prosecute the auditors also.
 No support could be drawn by either side in support of their
 respective contentions. The contention of the petitioners, being
 that since the very basis of the complaint is the authorisation,
 the prosecution gets vitiated in the absence of any
 authorisation, the contention of the respondent is that the lack
 of authorisation does not vitiate the prosecution. But however,
 a ruling of this court could be picked up by me, which is
 rendered in Satish & Co., v. S.R.Traders and Ors.1 , wherein
 with a reasoning, which is satisfactory to this court, it was held
 that the lack of authorisation at the time of filing of the
 complaint cannot be rectified subsequently. The Court posed to
 itself the question whether even in cases where proper
 authorization letter or power of attorney was not filed, along
 with the complaint, whether the company can ratify such
 actions later or whether such authorization letter can be filed
 later so as to regularize the irregular proceedings. By observing
 that the object of law in all such cases, that the complaint or
 suit shall be filed by a person duly authorised, is that, such
 proceedings will definitely have financial consequences on the
 company so as to bind the company for the actions of such
 persons, held that even subsequent authorisation would not
 regularize the irregularity which was there at the time of filing
 the complaint. Here, in this case, though such interest is not
 involved in the complainant department, as is involved in case
 of a company, there should be proper authority to file the
 complaint. When so much of exercise goes into the decision of
 prosecuting a person, as has gone in this case, a complaint
 cannot be filed casually against a person, without there being
 any authorisation. The complainant in this case is not acting
 individually and he is acting on behalf of the department, which
 has authorised him only to do a certain thing. The complainant
 cannot go beyond the authorisation and file the complaint
 against those persons, in respect of whom he is not authorised.
 Hence, though, the matter dealt with by this High Court related 1 1997(1) ALD (Crl.) 745 (AP) 8 to a Company, on an analogical plane, it can be applied to this
 case. The material produced by the petitioners is looked into
 as it is permitted by the Apex Court in Rajiv Thapar and
 others vs. Madan Lal Kapoor2 . Relevant paragraph reads as
 follows: If the answer to all the steps is in the affirmative,
judicial conscience of the High Court should persuade it to
quash such criminal - proceedings, in exercise of power
vested in it under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. Such
exercise of power, besides doing justice to the accused,
would save precious court time, which would otherwise be
wasted in holding such a trial (as well as, proceedings 10 arising therefrom) specially when, it is clear that the same
 would not conclude in the conviction of the accused." 15. Hence, in view of the above, continuance of further
 proceedings in C.C.Nos.124 and 125 of 2013, against the
 petitioners, on the file of Special Judge for Economic Offences-
 cum-Additional Metropolitan Sessions Judge, Hyderabad would
 be a futile exercise and would only result in abuse of process of
 law. 16. The Criminal Petitions are allowed and further
 proceedings in C.C.Nos.124 and 125 of 2013 respectively on
 the file of Special Judge for Economic Offences-cum-Additional
 Metropolitan Sessions Judge, Hyderabad against the
 petitioners, who are A6 and A3, are hereby quashed. As a sequel, the miscellaneous applications, if any
 pending, shall stand closed." In the light of the above, the criminal petition is allowed and the

further proceedings in CC.No.131 of 2013 on the file of the Special

Judge for Economic Offences cum Additional Metropolitan Sessions

Judge, Hyderabad, against the petitioner, are hereby quashed. As a sequel, the miscellaneous petitions, if any pending, shall stand

closed. __________
 T. RAJANI, J
August 23, 2018
DSK