- 1. This is an application for anticipatory bail in connection

 with CR No.36 of 2020, registered with Alankar Police Station,

 Pune, for the offences punishable under Sections 406 and 420

 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 ("the Penal

 Code"). 2. Suman Mangesh Avhad (the first informant) lodged a

 report on 12th March, 2020 with the allegations that she and her

 husband Mangesh became acquainted with the applicant Lata

 Bhope and her husband Hemant Bhope in a Sidhh Samadhi

 Yoga Session, in the year 2014. Hemant gave information to the

 first informant and her husband about Invest Sahi Money 1/6 16-1-ABA1949-21.DOC

Trading and Consultant Pvt. Ltd. Hemant gained confidence of

the first informant and her husband, and made them to pursue

a course in 'Money Workshop and Trading'. In a power-point

presentation, it was represented to the first informant and her

husband that on the investment, which they make in the said

company, they would get interest at the rate of 2.2% per month

or 30% per annum. Based on such representation, the first

informant claimed to have invested a sum of Rs.25,00,000/-

under the scheme of monthly interest at the rate of 2.2% and

sum of Rs.30,00,000/- under the scheme of return thereon at

the rate of 30% per annum. The accused allegedly paid interest,

as agreed, till 15th February, 2018. Thereafter, the payment of

return on investment stopped. Notices were issued calling upon

the applicant and her husband to repay the said amount along

with the agreed interest. On 5th April, 2018, the first informant

learnt that the husband of the applicant Mr. Hemand Bhope

was taken in custody in a "Bitcoin" fraud case. 3. The first informant and her husband claimed to have

approached the applicant. The latter gave assurances on

multiple occasions to repay the amount but reneged therefrom.

Later on the applicant and her husband claimed that they had

entrusted the said amount to one Mrs. Kalyani Lonkar (Thakur) 2/6 16-1-ABA1949-21.DOC

for trading and they should realize the amount from the said

Mrs. Kalyani Lonkar (Thakur). The first informant thus lodged

report. 4. Initially, this Court did not grant any interim protection.

However, on 8th October, 2021, an assurance was made before

the Court that the applicant would not be arrested till 22 nd

October, 2021. The same position has continued till date. 5. The learned Counsel for the applicant submitted that

there is no material to show prima facie complicity of the

applicant in the crime. It is not the case of the first informant

that the applicant was the person who induced her to part with

money. The allegations are primarily against Hemant Bhope,

the husband of the applicant. In the absence of any other

material, the applicant cannot be roped in for the mere reason

that she is the wife of Mr. Hemant Bhope, who allegedly duped

the first informant and her husband. 6. As against this, the learned APP and the learned Counsel

for the intervenor - first informant submitted that there is

prima facie material to show the complicity of the applicant.

The applicant was a partner in the firm, in which the first

informant, her husband and other similarly circumstanced

victims were made to invest the amount. Attention of the Court 3/6 16-1-ABA1949-21.DOC

was invited to the Supplementary Agreement to the LLP Deed of

Abundant Financial Services LLP., which shows that the

applicant was the partner of the original LLP with 50% share in

the profits. The learned Counsel for the intervenor - first

informant also invited the attention of the Court to a notice

which the applicant had addressed to Mrs. Kalyani Lonkar

(Thakur) wherein it was alleged that the understanding between

the parties was that the money to be raised by Mrs. Kalyani

Lonkar (Thakur), would be raised by receiving the deposits in

the name of the first informant and her husband. 7. I have carefully perused the allegations in the first

information report and the material on record. From the

perusal of the allegations in the FIR, it becomes abundantly

clear that the role of inducing the first informant and her

husband to make investment, is primarily against Mr. Hemant

Bhope, the husband of the applicant. It was, allegedly, Mr.

Hemant Bhope, who made the first informant and her husband

to believe that the amount they invested would fetch substantial

return. The applicant, it seems, came in the frame only after

co-accused Hemant was allegedly arrested in connection with

Bitcoin fraud case. The applicant initially promised to refund

the amount of the first informant and her husband and, later 4/6 16-1-ABA1949-21.DOC

on, resiled therefrom. The applicant also falsely claimed that

the amount was entrusted to Mrs. Kalyani Lonkar (Thakur) for

trading. 8. From the perusal of the allegations in the FIR, it becomes

abundantly clear that the role of making representation and

soliciting the investment is against the co-accused Hemant

Bhope. The first informant alleged that after the amount was

invested, the return of investment was duly made till 18 th

February, 2018. Till this point of time, it does not appear that

the applicant was directly involved in the transactions. The first

informant claimed to have approached the applicant after the

co-accused Hemant was arrested. The failure on the part of the

applicant to honour the commitments, which she allegedly

made, while her husband was in custody, in the Bitcoin case,

does not ipso facto lead to an inference of the complicity of the

applicant for the offences punishable under Sections 406 and 420 of the Penal Code. In the circumstances, the element of

entrustment of the money with the applicant itself appears to be

contestible. 9. Moreover, the applicant seems to have roots in society. The

possibility of fleeing away from justice also seems remote. 5/6 16-1-ABA1949-21.DOC 10. In the aforesaid backdrop, in my view a prima facie case

for grant of anticipatory bail is made out. 11. Hence, the following order: [N. J. JAMADAR, J.] 6/6