[1] Heard Mr. Nageswara Rao, learned senior counsel assisted by
Mr. M. Brojendro, learned counsel for the petitioner and Mr. S. Suresh,
learned counsel appearing on behalf of Directorate of Enforcement (ED). [2] The petitioner who is in custody with respect to ECR No.
IMSZO05/2022 registered by Directorate of Enforcement (ED), Government
of Manipur under Section 483 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita
(BNSS), 2023 seeking regular bail in the above referred case. [3] The petitioner is the Chief Managing Director of Lamjingba
Group of Companies. The company is alleged to have been operating an

Bail Appln. No. 10 of 2025 Page 1
 authorized and unregulated deposits scheme by collecting huge amount of
deposit money to the tune of Rs. 600 crores from 15,000
investors/depositors from the State of Manipur with a promise of exorbitant
rate of returns and hereby alleged to have been cheated the investors by
causing loss to them to the tune of Rs. 600 crores. Money
investors/depositors have opened accounts with Lamjingba Finance by
depositing funds mostly in cash and by misleading the investors that the
investments are safe and guarantee high amounts of interest. Initial interest
was paid, however, the company closed in the 1st quarter of 2020 without
returning promised funds to the investors. It is also alleged that the
Lamjingba Finance is currently operating its business in the name of
investors Association known as AMLIA (All Manipur Lamjingba Investor
Association) where Mr. Mutum Robindro Singh and Inaoton Laiphrakpam
are said to have been the leaders of the said association. Based on the
allegations, the Manipur Police registered 7 (seven) FIRs viz. FIR No.
152(6)2022, FIR No. 153(6)2022, FIR No. 154(6)2022, FIR No. 155(6)2022,
156(6)2022, 157(6)2022 and 158(6)2022 all dated 18.06.2025. It is further
alleged that Lamjingba Finance was operating a Ponzi Scheme that
promised gullible investors an exorbitant return in a very short period at the
rate of Rs. 3.5% for the 2 year plan, 2% monthly simple interest rate for 6
months' plan, 1 year plan monthly interest rate of Rs. 2.5%, 3 year plans with
a monthly interest rate of 3% and 4 year plans with a monthly interest rate of
3.5% and thereby collected a huge amount of deposit to the tune of Rs. 600
crores from 15000 investors/depositors with a promise of exorbitant rate of
returns. [4] Lamjingba Group of Companies was not registered as a Non-
Banking Financial Companies (NBFC) under Section 45-IA of RBI Act and
engaged in the illegal collection of money from the general public with a
promise of high rate of returns. The group also illegally indulged in giving
loan to public/borrower against the security of property (Loan Against
Property) at a very high rate of interest i.e. 3 to 3.5% per month (i.e. 36% to
42% per annum) and the group is functioning like a Bank or NBFC without

Bail Appln. No. 10 of 2025 Page 2
 any valid registration and license. Mr. Sanasam Jacky Singh is alleged to
have criminal conspiracy with other co-accused and signed a fictitious MoU
in New Delhi wherein the petitioner transferred most of the assets of the
Lamjingba Group to AMLIA Group and disguised the proceeds of crime to
mislead the investigation. The petitioner is further alleged to have committed
the offence of Money Laundering under Section 3 of the Prevention of Money
Laundering Act (PMLA). It is stated that the investigation in the predicate
offence is not completed and final report after investigation has not been
filed. However, the trial in PMLA case in Special Court PMLA is in progress.
It is submitted that the petitioner is in custody since 21.01.2023. [5] Vide common order dated 19.04.2023 in Cril.Misc.(B) Case
Nos. 15 of 2023 (FIR No. 152 (6) 2022 (IPS), 16 of 2023 (FIR No. 153 (6)
2022 (IPS), 27 of 2023 (FIR No. 154 (6) 2022 (IPS), 14 of 2023 (FIR No. 155
(6) 2022 (IPS), 28 of 2023 (FIR No. 156 (6) 2022 (IPS), 29 of 2023 (FIR No.
157 (6) 2022 (IPS), 26 of 2023 (FIR No. 158 (6) 2022 (IPS) and 20 of 2023
(FIR No. 249 (9) 2022 (IPS) passed by the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Imphal
West, the petitioner was released on bail under Section 437 Cr.P.C. read
with Section 167 Cr.P.C., as there was no progress in the investigation on a
bond of Rs. 2 lakhs along with one surety. The relevant paras 11 & 12 are
reproduced below: Out of the said PR bond of Rs.2 lakhs each, Rs.50,000/- each
 in respect of the accused person i.e. Rs.4,00,000/- in total be
 furnished in the form of cash to the Nazir of the District & Sessions
 Judge, Imphal West. 12. In the backdrop of the aforesaid reasons, all the bail
 petitions as mentioned in Para No. 1 stands allowed and disposed of
 subject to the terms and conditions mentioned in Para No. 11. The
 observation and findings above shall not have any bearing on the
 merits of investigation or facts as investigation continues. Announced in Open Court. Thus disposed of." In other words, the petitioner has been released on default bail
in all the 9 (nine) FIRs registered against him, as the investigation could not
be completed within the stipulated time. [6] It is already noted that the ED also registered another case and
trial has initiated as Special Trial (PMLA) Case No. 2 of 2023 with reference
to ECIR No. IMSZO05/2022 U/S 4 & 5 PMLA Act, 2022 . Vide order dated
20.10.2023 passed by the Ld. Special Judge (PMLA), Imphal East in
Cril.Misc. (B) Case No. 89 of 2023 [Ref: Special Trial (PMLA) Case No. 2 of
2023] ECIR No. IMSZO05/2022 U/S 4 & 5 PMLA Act, 2022 , the bail
application of the petitioner was rejected, as twin conditions imposed under Section 45 of PMLA could not be satisfied. Vide another order dated
27.12.2023 in Cril.Misc. (B) Case No. 118 of 2023 [Ref: Special Trial (PMLA)
Case No. 2 of 2023] ECIR No. IMSZO05/2022 U/S 4 & 5 PMLA Act, 2022 ,
the Ld. Special Judge (PMLA), Imphal East also rejected the second appeal
filed by the petitioner, as there was no changed circumstances after
dismissal of the first bail application and the twin conditions of section 45 of

Bail Appln. No. 10 of 2025 Page 4
 PMLA were not satisfied. In the circumstances, the petitioner is still in
custody. [7] Mr. Nageswara Rao, learned senior counsel for the petitioner,
submits that in all the FIRs registered by the Manipur Police, chargesheets
have not been submitted as the investigation is still ongoing. However, in the
case registered by ED, the petitioner is facing trial and out of 21 (twenty one)
witnesses cited, 5 (five) witnesses have been examined and 16 (sixteen)
more to be examined and it may take one or two more years to complete the
proceeding before the Special Court. The petitioner has been granted bail in
all the FIRs but he is in custody in the ED case. The punishment provided
under Section 3 & 4 of PMLA is minimum 3 years and maximum 7 years of
imprisonment. As on date, the petitioner is in custody more than half of the
minimum sentence and about to reach half of the maximum punishment in
custody as an under trial prisoner (UTP). [8] Learned senior counsel for the petitioner refers to the decision
of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary v.
Union of India reported (2023) 12 SCC 1 and V. Senthil Balaji v. The
Deputy Director, Directorate of Enforcement: 2024 INSC 739: 2024 SCC
OnlineSC 2626, where it was held that when a person is acquitted or
discharged in the predicate offence, the charge under PMLA Act will no
longer survive. It is submitted that in the present case, chargesheets have
not been filed in the predicate offences and the continuation of the
proceedings under PMLA Act is not proper and the petitioner cannot be
convicted in the PLMA case, unless is has already been convicted under the
scheduled/predicate offences. It is submitted that the ongoing trial under PMLA Act will be a nullity until and unless the petitioner has been convicted
under the predicate offence under IPC and other related normal penal
offence. The trial under PMLA Act defines upon the outcome of the normal
FIR case registered against the petitioner and as such, half of the petitioner
in PMLA offence is not justifiable. has also pointed out that the provisions of Section 45 of PMLA Act will not
attracted in the present case where there is long incarceration as held by
the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Manish Sisodia v. Directorate
of Enforcement reported as ( 2024) 12 SCC 660 and Senthil Balaji v. The
Deputy Director, Directorate of Enforcement reported as 2024 SCC
Online SC 2626 where it was held that where there is an inordinate delay in
the trial and there is no likelihood of expeditious completion of trial, the
applicant deserves to be released on bail. In the case of Nikesh Tarachand
Shah reported as (2018) 11 SCC 1, it was held that the onus under Section
45 of the PMLA Act will not fall upon the accused. It is submitted that the
petitioner may be released on bail on such conditions as imposed by this
Court and no fruitful purpose will be served by keeping in custody when
investigation under predicate offence are not completed and he has already
released on default bail in the 8 FIRs registered against him. [10] Mr. S. Suresh, learned counsel for the ED, submits that the
petitioner is main accused and the Chief of Lamjingba Group of Companies
which is not registered as Non-Banking Financial Companies but doing the
business of lending loan and deposit from the general public at the high rate
of interest from 3% to 3.3% per month (i.e. 36% to 42% per annum) in the
process after collected approximately Rs. 586 crores from 15,000 depositors
and investors with a promise of giving exceptional higher returns in his
voluntary statement made on 28.01.2023 and recorded under Section 50 of
PMLA Act, the petitioner admitted that unaccounted huge transactions were
related to funds which he collected from the general public under his deposit
scheme and the Lamjingba Group transferred all the assets of one of self-
style group under the name of AMLIA vide MoU dated 21.04.2022 to the
tune of more than Rs. 252 crore which is nothing but direct proceeds of
crimes in terms of Section 2(1)(u) of PMLA Act, 2002 and the petitioner was
taken into custody on 21.03.2023. Two movable and seven immovable
properties with a value of almost Rs. 2 crores were already attached as
proceeds of crime in terms of Section 2(1)(u) of PMLA Act and the Court

Bail Appln. No. 10 of 2025 Page 6
 took cognizance on 20.03.2023 and framed charge on 30.03.2024 and there
is good progress in the trial. Mr. S. Suresh, learned counsel for the ED,
submits that the petitioner is involved in inducing large number of gullible
and innocent investors to deposit under the Lamjingba Finance of
Companies which was Ponzi scheme with a promise of high rate of return
and defrauded the investors and misappropriate amount to the tune of Rs.
298 crores by transferring to AMLIA and the petitioner has definite and major
role in the commission of offence of money laundering

[11] Mr. S. Suresh, learned counsel for ED, draws the attention of
this Court to Section 45 of PMLA Act for which the twin conditions have to
be satisfied before releasing the accused in bail. He refers to the case of Tarun Kumar v. Assistant Director Directorate of Enforcement reported
in (2023) 14 SCR 813. Learned counsel refers to the decision of Saumya
Chaurasia v. Directorate of Enforcement reported in (2024) 6 SCC 401
with respect to twin conditions of grant of bail under section 45 of PMLA Act. Reference is also made to the Union of India through the Assistant
Director v. Kanhaiya Prasad reported in (2025) 2 SCR 544 where it is was
held that offence of money laundering is not an ordinary offence and Court
should not grant bail by passing cryptic orders without considering the
seriousness of the crime and rigorous of Section 45 of the Act. [12] Learned counsel for the ED has further pointed out that under Section 24 of PMLA Act, the burden of proof lies on the accused until
contrary is proved. He further refers to the decision of Gautam Kundu v.
Directorate of Enforcement (Prevention of Money Laundering Act )
reported as (2015) 16 SCC 1 to the effect that the provisions of Section 45 of PMLA are pointing on the High Court while considering the bail application
under Section 439 of Cr.P.C. On merit, it is stated that the petitioner is
involved in collection of huge amount of money to the tune of Rs. 600 crores
from the innocent investors on the promise of high returns and after initial
payment of interest, they stopped the payment of interest and transfer the
proceed to another company i.e. AMLIA. The whole collection, deposit and

Bail Appln. No. 10 of 2025 Page 7
 lending of money is done without any license from RBI or from any
competent authority and it is a clear case of money laundering by the
petitioner from innocent investors. [13] Mr. S. Suresh, learned counsel for the ED, has negated the
submission of Mr. Nageswara Rao, learned senior counsel for the petitioner
that continuing custody of the petitioner under ED offence is not maintainable
by stating that the bar is in the conviction and there is no bar of continuation
of the trial under the PMLA Act by ED, notwithstanding non-completion of
the investigation in the scheduled offence/predicate offence, i.e., pending
FIR lodged against the petitioner. It is submitted that the bail application may
be rejected. [14] This Court has minutely examined the materials on record, the
submissions at bar and the relevant case law in this regard. [15] The short question involved in the present bail application are: It has been held that the provisions of Section 436-A CrPC is in the nature
of default bail provisions under Section 167 CrPC and this benefits will
extend to special penal law such as offence under Section 4 of PMLA as a
statutory bail. Relevant para are reproduced below for ready reference: 318. In the Statement of Objects and Reasons, it was stated thus: 319. In Hussainara Khatoon v. State of Bihar421 , this Court stated
 that the right to speedy trial is one of the facets of Article 21 and
 recognised the right to speedy trial as a fundamental right. This
 dictum has been consistently followed by this Court in several cases.
 Parliament in its wisdom inserted Section 436-A under the 1973

Bail Appln. No. 10 of 2025 Page 10
 Code recognising the deteriorating state of undertrial prisoners so as
 to provide them with a remedy in case of unjustified detention. 320. In Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee Representing
 Undertrial Prisoners v. Union of India422 , the Court, relying on
 Hussainara Khatoon421, directed the release of prisoners charged
 under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act after
 completion of one-half of the maximum term prescribed under the
 Act. The Court issued such direction after taking into account the non
 obstante provision of Section 37 of the NDPS Act, which imposed
 the rigours of twin conditions for release on bail. It was observed : 321. The Union of India also recognised the right to speedy trial and
 access to justice as fundamental right in their written submissions
 and, thus, submitted that in a limited situation right of bail can be
 granted in case of violation of Article 21 of the Constitution. Further,

Bail Appln. No. 10 of 2025 Page 11
 it is to be noted that Section 436-A of the 1973 Code was inserted
 after the enactment of the 2002 Act. Thus, it would not be appropriate
 to deny the relief of Section 436-A of the 1973 Code which is a
 wholesome provision beneficial to a person accused under the 2002
 Act. However, Section 436-A of the 1973 Code, does not provide for
 an absolute right of bail as in the case of default bail under Section
 167 of the 1973 Code. For, in the fact situation of a case, the court
 may still deny the relief owing to ground, such as where the trial was
 delayed at the instance of the accused himself. 322. Be that as it may, in our opinion, this provision is comparable
 with the statutory bail provision or, so to say, the default bail, to be
 granted in terms of Section 167 of the 1973 Code consequent to
 failure of the investigating agency to file the charge-sheet within the
 statutory period and, in the context of the 2002 Act, complaint within
 the specified period after arrest of the person concerned. In the case
 of Section 167 of the 1973 Code, an indefeasible right is triggered in
 favour of the accused the moment the investigating agency commits
 default in filing the charge-sheet/complaint within the statutory
 period. The provision in the form of Section 436-A of the 1973 Code,
 as has now come into being is in recognition of the constitutional
 right of the accused regarding speedy trial under Article 21 of the
 Constitution. For, it is a sanguine hope of every accused, who is in
 custody in particular, that he/she should be tried expeditiously -- so
 as to uphold the tenets of speedy justice. If the trial cannot proceed
 even after the accused has undergone one-half of the maximum
 period of imprisonment provided by law, there is no reason to deny
 him this lesser relief of considering his prayer for release on bail or
 bond, as the case may be, with appropriate conditions, including to
 secure his/her presence during the trial. 323. The learned Solicitor General was at pains to persuade us that
 this view would impact the objectives of the 2002 Act and is in the
 nature of superimposition of Section 436-A of the 1973 Code over Section 45 of the 2002 Act. He has also expressed concern that the
 same logic may be invoked in respect of other serious offences,
 including terrorist offences which would be counterproductive. So be
 it. We are not impressed by this submission. For, it is the
 constitutional obligation of the State to ensure that trials are
 concluded expeditiously and at least within a reasonable time where
 strict bail provisions apply. If a person is detained for a period
 extending up to one-half of the maximum period of imprisonment
 specified by law and is still facing trial, it is nothing short of failure of
 the State in upholding the constitutional rights of the citizens,
 including person accused of an offence. 324. Section 436-A of the 1973 Code, is a wholesome beneficial
 provision, which is for effectuating the right of speedy trial
 guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution and which merely

Bail Appln. No. 10 of 2025 Page 12
 specifies the outer limits within which the trial is expected to be
 concluded, failing which, the accused ought not to be detained
 further. Indeed, Section 436-A of the 1973 Code also contemplates
 that the relief under this provision cannot be granted mechanically. It
 is still within the discretion of the court, unlike the default bail under
 Section 167 of the 1973 Code. Under Section 436-A of the 1973
 Code, however, the court is required to consider the relief on case-
 to-case basis. As the proviso therein itself recognises that, in a given
 case, the detention can be continued by the court even longer than
 one-half of the period, for which, reasons are to be recorded by it in
 writing and also by imposing such terms and conditions so as to
 ensure that after release, the accused makes himself/herself
 available for expeditious completion of the trial. 325. However, that does not mean that the principle enunciated by
 this Court in Supreme Court Legal Aid Committee Representing
 Undertrial Prisoners422, to ameliorate the agony and pain of persons
 kept in jail for unreasonably long time, even without trial, can be
 whittled down on such specious plea of the State. If
 Parliament/legislature provides for stringent provision of no bail,
 unless the stringent conditions are fulfilled, it is the bounden duty of
 the State to ensure that such trials get precedence and are
 concluded within a reasonable time, at least before the accused
 undergoes detention for a period extending up to one-half of the
 maximum period of imprisonment specified for the offence
 concerned by law. [Be it noted, this provision (Section 436-A of the
 1973 Code) is not available to the accused who is facing trial for the
 offences punishable with death sentence.] 326. In our opinion, therefore, Section 436-A needs to be construed
 as a statutory bail provision and akin to Section 167 of the 1973
 Code. Notably, the learned Solicitor General has fairly accepted
 during the arguments and also restated in the written notes that the
 mandate of Section 167 of the 1973 Code would apply with full force
 even to cases falling under Section 3 of the 2002 Act, regarding
 money laundering offences. On the same logic, we must hold that
 Section 436-A of the 1973 Code could be invoked by the accused
 arrested for the offence punishable under the 2002 Act, being a
 statutory bail. [18] In the case of V. Senthil Balaji v. The Deputy Directorate of
Enforcement : 2024 INSC 739: 2024 SCC Online SC 2626, Hon'ble
Supreme Court held that the existence of scheduled offence is sine quo non
for the existence of the proceeds of crime. The trial under PMLA cannot be
decided unless the trial in the scheduled offences concludes. In case of delay

Bail Appln. No. 10 of 2025 Page 13
 in trial, the accused is entitled to bail, notwithstanding the strict rigor of the
provision of Section 45 of PMLA. The relevant para are reproduced below: The existence of proceeds of crime at the time of the trial of the
 offence under Section 3 of PMLA can be proved only if the scheduled
 offence is established in the prosecution of the scheduled offence.
 Therefore, even if the trial of the case under the PMLA proceeds, it
 cannot be finally decided unless the trial of scheduled offences
 concludes. In the facts of the case, there is no possibility of the trial
 of the scheduled offences commencing in the near future. Therefore,
 we see no possibility of both trials concluding within a few years. 24. There are a few penal statutes that make a departure from the
 provisions of Sections 437 , 438 , and 439 of the Criminal Procedure
 Code, 1973. A higher threshold is provided in these statutes for the
 grant of bail. By way of illustration, we may refer to Section 45(1)(ii) of PMLA, proviso to Section 43D(5) of the Unlawful Activities
 (Prevention) Act, 1967 and Section 37 of the Narcotic Drugs and
 Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (for short, ' NDPS Act '). The
 provisions regarding bail in some of such statutes start with a
 nonobstante clause for overriding the provisions of Sections 437 to 439 of the CrPC. The legislature has done so to
 secure the object of making the penal provisions in such enactments.
 For example, the PMLA provides for Section 45(1)(ii) as money
 laundering poses a serious threat not only to the country's financial
 system but also to its integrity and sovereignty. 25. Considering the gravity of the offences in such statutes,
 expeditious disposal of trials for the crimes under these statutes is
 contemplated. Moreover, such statutes contain provisions laying
 down higher threshold for the grant of bail. The expeditious disposal
 of the trial is also warranted considering the higher threshold set for
 the grant of bail. Hence, the requirement of expeditious disposal of
 cases must be read into these statutes. Inordinate delay in the
 conclusion of the trial and the higher threshold for the grant of bail
 cannot go together. It is a well-settled principle of our criminal
 jurisprudence that "bail is the rule, and jail is the exception." These
 stringent provisions regarding the grant of bail, such as Section
 45(1)(iii) of the PMLA, cannot become a tool which can be used to
 incarcerate the accused without trial for an unreasonably long time. 26. There are a series of decisions of this Court starting from the
 decision in the case of K.A. Najeeb2, which hold that such stringent
 provisions for the grant of bail do not take away the power of

Bail Appln. No. 10 of 2025 Page 14
 Constitutional Courts to grant bail on the grounds of violation of Part
 III of the Constitution of India. We have already referred to paragraph
 17 of the said decision , which lays down that the rigours of such
 provisions will melt down where there is no likelihood of trial being
 completed in a reasonable time and the period of incarceration
 already undergone has exceeded a substantial part of the prescribed
 sentence. One of the reasons is that if, because of such provisions,
 incarceration of an undertrial accused is continued for an
 unreasonably long time, the provisions may be exposed to the vice
 of being violative of Article 21 of the Constitution of India. 27. Under the Statutes like PMLA, the minimum sentence is three
 years, and the maximum is seven years. The minimum sentence is
 higher when the scheduled offence is under the NDPS Act . When
 the trial of the complaint under PMLA is likely to prolong beyond
 reasonable limits, the Constitutional Courts will have to consider
 exercising their powers to grant bail. The reason is that Section
 45(1)(ii) does not confer power on the State to detain an accused for
 an unreasonably long time, especially when there is no possibility of
 trial concluding within a reasonable time. What a reasonable time is
 will depend on the provisions under which the accused is being tried
 and other factors. One of the most relevant factor is the duration of
 the minimum and maximum sentence for the offence. Another
 important consideration is the higher threshold or stringent
 conditions which a statute provides for the grant of bail. Even an
 outer limit provided by the relevant law for the completion of the trial,
 if any, is also a factor to be considered. The extraordinary powers,
 as held in the case of K.A. Najeeb2, can only be exercised by the
 Constitutional Courts. The Judges of the Constitutional Courts have
 vast experience. Based on the facts on record, if the Judges
 conclude that there is no possibility of a trial concluding in a
 reasonable time, the power of granting bail can always be exercised
 by the Constitutional Courts on the grounds of violation of Part III of
 the Constitution of India notwithstanding the statutory provisions.
 The Constitutional Courts can always exercise its jurisdiction under Article 32 or Article 226 , as the case may be. The Constitutional
 Courts have to bear in mind while dealing with the cases under the
 PMLA that, except in a few exceptional cases, the maximum
 sentence can be of seven years. The Constitutional Courts cannot
 allow provisions like Section 45(1)(ii) to become instruments in the
 hands of the ED to continue incarceration for a long time when there
 is no possibility of a trial of the scheduled offence and the PMLA
 offence concluding within a reasonable time. If the Constitutional
 Courts do not exercise their jurisdiction in such cases, the rights of
 the undertrials under Article 21 of the Constitution of India will be
 defeated. In a given case, if an undue delay in the disposal of the
 trial of scheduled offences or disposal of trial under the PMLA can
 be substantially attributed to the accused, the Constitutional Courts

Bail Appln. No. 10 of 2025 Page 15
 can always decline to exercise jurisdiction to issue prerogative writs.
 An exception will also be in a case where, considering the
 antecedents of the accused, there is every possibility of the accused
 becoming a real threat to society if enlarged on bail. The jurisdiction
 to issue prerogative writs is always discretionary. 28. Some day, the courts, especially the Constitutional Courts, will
 have to take a call on a peculiar situation that arises in our justice
 delivery system. There are cases where clean acquittal is granted by
 the criminal courts to the accused after very long incarceration as an
 undertrial. When we say clean acquittal, we are excluding the cases
 where the witnesses have turned hostile or there is a bona fide
 defective investigation. In such cases of clean acquittal, crucial years
 in the life of the accused are lost. In a given case, it may amount to
 violation of rights of the accused under Article 21 of
 the Constitution which may give rise to a claim for compensation. 29. As stated earlier, the appellant has been incarcerated for 15
 months or more for the offence punishable under the PMLA. In the
 facts of the case, the trial of the scheduled offences and,
 consequently, the PMLA offence is not likely to be completed in three
 to four years or even more. If the appellant's detention is continued,
 it will amount to an infringement of his fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution of India of speedy trial.
[19] In the case of Manish Sisodia v. Enforcement Directorate : Right to bail, in case delay in investigation and trial coupled with
incarceration for a long period, should be read into Section 439 CrPC and Section 45 of PMLA. With respect to the plea of tampering with the evidence,
it has been observed that there would not be such situation as the
documentary evidences are in the custody of the prosecution and influencing
of witnesses can be addressed by imposing stringent conditions. Relevant
para are reproduced below: grant of bail even in straightforward open-and-shut cases, this Court
 is flooded with huge number of bail petitions thereby adding to the
 huge pendency. It is high time that the trial courts and the High
 Courts should recognise the principle that "bail is rule and jail is
 exception". 53. In the present case, in ED matter as well as CBI matter, 493
 witnesses have been named. The case involves thousands of pages
 of documents and over a lakh pages of digitised documents. It is thus
 clear that there is not even the remotest possibility of the trial being
 concluded in the near future. In our view, keeping the appellant
 behind bars for an unlimited period of time in the hope of speedy
 completion of trial would deprive his fundamental right to liberty
 under Article 21 of the Constitution. As observed time and again, the
 prolonged incarceration before being pronounced guilty of an
 offence should not be permitted to become punishment without trial. 54. As observed by this Court in Gudikanti Narasimhulu25, the
 objective to keep a person in judicial custody pending trial or disposal
 of an appeal is to secure the attendance of the prisoner at trial. 55. In the present case, the appellant is having deep roots in the
 society. There is no possibility of him fleeing away from the country
 and not being available for facing the trial. In any case, conditions
 can be imposed to address the concern of the State. 56. Insofar as the apprehension given by the learned ASG regarding
 the possibility of tampering the evidence is concerned, it is to be

Bail Appln. No. 10 of 2025 Page 18
 noted that the case largely depends on documentary evidence which
 is already seized by the prosecution. As such, there is no possibility
 of tampering with the evidence. Insofar as the concern with regard
 to influencing the witnesses is concerned, the said concern can be
 addressed by imposing stringent conditions upon the appellant.
[20] From the above cited case law, it is the settled principle of law
that the prosecution under PMLA for proceeds of crime and money
laundering shall be maintainable, only if the accused is convicted in a trial
under the scheduled offences. If the accused is discharged or acquitted from
the scheduled offences, the prosecution under PMLA will become a dead
proceeding. Section 45 of the Act imposes stringent conditions for granting
bail and generally bail may be granted, if the accused is unlikely not guilty of
the offences and will not repeat the offence while on bail. The prosecution
should be given an opportunity of opposing the bail application. However, in
case of delay in trial and long incarceration, the strict rigors of Section 45 of
PMLA will be diluted. It is also the settled law that the provisions of Section
436-A of CrPC will be applicable in a trial under PMLA also and this provision
does not mean that an accused has to be in custody for a particular period
before availing this benefit. It will be pertinent to re-emphasize the basic
principle in criminal jurisprudence that '......the prolonged incarceration
before being pronounced guilty of an offence should not be permitted to
become punishment without trial (kindly see: Manish Sisodia , supra)'. [21] In the present case, the petitioner is on default in all eight FIRs
under the scheduled offences of Sections 120-B / 403 / 406 / 420 / 34 IPC. The
investigations are not completed. The maximum sentence under these
offences is 7 years imprisonment. He is also facing trial in a proceeding
under Sections 3 / 4 of PMLA and the trial is in active progress, having
examined 5 of the 21 witnesses cited by ED. The punishment for the offence
under PMLA is 3 to 7 years of imprisonment. The petitioner is in custody
under PMLA trial as his two bail applications have been rejected by learned
Special Court on the ground of unable to surpass the twin test of Section 45 .
Even if the trial under PMLA is completed within a reasonable time, there
cannot be a conclusion or conviction, unless he is convicted in the trial under

Bail Appln. No. 10 of 2025 Page 19
 scheduled offences. If bail application is rejected in PMLA trial and the
investigations in the scheduled offences/FIRs are not completed within a
short period, the petitioner is likely to be in custody till completion of
maximum 7 years imprisonment under Section 4 of the PMLA. He is
completing 3 years in custody on 20.01.2026. In the circumstances and as
held in the above cited cases of V. Senthil Balaji (supra) and Manish Sisodia (supra), the strict rigors of Section 45 of PMLA will be diluted and the
petitioner will be entitled to release on bail on such strict conditions to prevent
in influencing the trial and investigation. [22] In view of the settled law of bail in trial under PMLA and
considering the long incarceration and delay in the investigation and trial of
the scheduled offences, this Court is inclined to release the petitioner on bail
in the ED case registered under PMLA on furnishing a personal bail bond of
Rs.25,00,000/- (rupees twenty-five lakh) with two sureties (both gazetted
officers) of like amount each, to the satisfaction of learned Special Judge
(PMLA), Imphal East with the following conditions: