Heard through video conferencing with the aid of
case-diary. 1. Both these applications have arisen out of the same crime
number of the same police station, therefore they are heard
analogously and are being decided by this order. 2. As declared by the respective petitioners, both these
applications are their first applications for seeking bail under
section 439 Cr.P.C. 3. The primary ground for pressing bail in both the petitions
is that both the petitioners are in fact victims and not the
perpetrators. They are not the director, partner, manager or
agent of the company. They have never received any amount
from any of the investor. On the contrary, petitioner Akhilesh
not only invested a handsome amount, but had also persuaded
 HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH : BENCH AT INDORE M.Cr.C. No.45494 of 2020 Rahul Pagare Vs. State of MP M.Cr.C. No.45803 of 2020 Akhilesh Vs. State of M.P. 2 his wife and other close relatives to do the same. They all have
collectively invested Rs.16,08,000/- in the company. 4. Before registration of the present complaint, they had
filed complaints on 30th April 2019 and 27th July 2020 for
taking action against the miss-deeds of the company. 5. Other grounds taken by the petitioners are that they are
respected persons of the society. They are permanent residents
of Indore. There is no possibility of their absconding. Their
custodial interrogation is not required. The trial is likely to take
time. They have no criminal antecedent. Their life is at risk due
to spread of COVID-19 pandemic. They are ready to abide by
the conditions to be imposed by the Court and to furnish
adequate security for their appearance before the investigating
agency and also before the trial Court. Therefore, it is prayed,
that they be granted bail. 6. The State has strongly opposed the bail. It is argued by
the learned panel lawyer that petitioner Akhilesh posed himself
as head of the operation of the company for the entire State of
Madhya Pradesh. Both the petitioners instigated several
persons to invest money by assuring hefty profits. They
guaranteed their money to be tripled in few days. In order to
instil confidence, Abhishek issued checks of his own account to
guarantee the refund of their principal amount invested with
the company. These cheques were also later dishonoured by the
Banks. 7. Modus operandi of the accused persons was that first
they incorporated a company, allured the people to invest
money with assured hefty returns. After sufficient amount is
 HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH : BENCH AT INDORE M.Cr.C. No.45494 of 2020 Rahul Pagare Vs. State of MP M.Cr.C. No.45803 of 2020 Akhilesh Vs. State of M.P. 3 invested by the several persons, they wound up the company
abruptly and move on to incorporating another company. They
forced the people to invest some more money to secure their
old investment stating that they will shift their account from
the old company to the new company but for refund of the
entire amount they have to invest some more money. In the
same manner, they collected more and more money, whilst
incorporating and winding up five companies one after the
other. In the same manner, they deceived several persons, out
of whom 108 people approached the police and have made
complaints. 8. The police are still trying to find out the authentication of
incorporation and winding up proceedings, but nothing has
been found till date to show that these companies were legally
incorporated or lawfully wound up. 9. They were having no authority to accept investment in
any form or to trade/deal in bitcoin or crypto currency. 10. The main accused Manoj Kumar Patel is still absconding.
The investigation is at initial stage. Several documents have to
be examined. The petitioners were closely associated with the
company. The act attributed to them is still to be determined.
The veracity of the documents referred to and relied upon by
the petitioners, has to be examined and without such
examination they cannot be relied upon at this stage. There is
nothing on record that petitioner Akhilesh or any of his family
members invested any money in the company or that the same,
if invested, has not been withdrawn during the course of their
association with the company. HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH : BENCH AT INDORE M.Cr.C. No.45494 of 2020 Rahul Pagare Vs. State of MP M.Cr.C. No.45803 of 2020 Akhilesh Vs. State of M.P. 4 11. The complaints dated 30/04/2019 and 27/07/2020
referred to by the petitioners are ante dated documents as there
is no inward number or Roznamcha entry of their filing. 12. All the complainants have alleged that it was the
petitioners who induced them to invest money posing
themselves as the head of the company for the State of Madhya
Pradesh. Their statement cannot be disregarded without a fair
opportunity to establish the truth. 13. The company is headquartered outside India, which is not
yet known. It operates from outside India over which local
agencies have no control. The company has a pan India
network. Several cases have been registered against the
company and its key persons in different States of India. They
are still out of clutches of the investigating agency. Several
attempts made to nab them have gone in vain. Release of the
petitioners will give them a chance them to manage and control
things and to make investigation more difficult. The petitioners
are well acquainted with the data of the clients and the links,
IDs and passwords to login. In case they find access to the
system, they may tamper with or corrupt the evidence or even
delete the same and their release may facilitate them to access
the system of the companies and also to interfere the data saved
in digitized form. It would hamper the investigation and may
make it difficult to collect the evidence to establish the charges
made against the petitioners as well as against the co-accused
persons. Therefore, it is prayed, that the petitioners be not
granted bail. 14. I have heard the rival contentions of the parties and have
 HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH : BENCH AT INDORE M.Cr.C. No.45494 of 2020 Rahul Pagare Vs. State of MP M.Cr.C. No.45803 of 2020 Akhilesh Vs. State of M.P. 5 gone through the record. 15. A brief resume of the facts embodied in the complaints is
that the petitioners contacted several persons stating that
petitioner Akhilesh has been appointed head of BTC Aids Pro
systems Ltd for Madhya Pradesh. He said that if a person
purchases a package of the company worth $300 or INR
24,000/- his money will grow up to ₹ 72,000/- in three
months. He further revealed business module of the company
and explained that the company works on Block Chain System.
According to this system, if a participant adds some more
participants, he will get a certain percentage of the investment
made by the newly added participant as a referral commission.
Suppose on referral, a person purchases/invests ₹ 80,000/- in
any scheme of the company, he will get ₹6400/- as
commission. The company launched their own crypto currency
in the name and style of FCC or "future classic coin". They
created a UPI payment gateway in the name and style of
"Fortune Pay". They also developed their own trading platform
with the name and style of "Xindex". Thereafter they created a
shopping portal called "FCC shopping mall". They opened links
for the participants but abort them abruptly without any reason
and without refund to the stranded people. In this way they
collected crores of rupees, which, as per rough estimate,
crossed more than ₹15,00,00,000/- and shut down all the
links, platforms and operations of their companies. 16. The petitioners have placed reliance on order dated
16.09.2020 passed in Satnam Singh Randhawa Vs.
State of M.P. M.Cr.C. No.26165 of 2020; order dated
 HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH : BENCH AT INDORE M.Cr.C. No.45494 of 2020 Rahul Pagare Vs. State of MP M.Cr.C. No.45803 of 2020 Akhilesh Vs. State of M.P. 6 23.09.2020 passed in Ashish Kumar Vs. State of M.P.
 M.Cr.C. No.4610 of 2020; order dated 31.08.2020
 passed in Sunil Baghel Vs. State of M.P. M.Cr.C.
 No.30145 of 2020; and order dated 27.09.2017 passed
 in Prakash Vs. State of M.P. M.Cr.C. No.8288 of 2017. In all four cases, bail has been granted to the petitioners therein
 in the cases registered against them for committing different
 types of fraud, but in Satnam Singh 's case (supra) bail has
 been granted after more than four years of custody and also
 considering the parity with the co-accused who had already
 been granted bail so also the delay in trial. In rest of the cases,
 bail was granted considering that the petitioners therein were
 only employees of the company and worked for the company
 only in order to their employment and had not played any vital,
 decisive or significant role in the fraud committed by the
 companies, therefore, all the four cases cited by the petitioners
 are not helpful for them for acceding their prayer. 17. Taking into consideration the accusation made against
 the petitioners by more than 100 (108) persons deceived by
 them, their statements, the evidence showing complicity of the
 petitioners, complexity of the offence, apprehensions expressed
 by the State, nature of the evidence, stage of investigation, act
 attributed to the petitioners and other facts and circumstances
 of the case, I am not inclined to grant bail to the petitioners.
 Therefore, both the petitions are dismissed. (Virender Singh)
 Judge
Pankaj Digitally signed by Pankaj Pandey Date: 2020.11.24 11:03:03 +05'30'