1. This petition for bail is the first petition filed by the petitioner

under Section 483 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023. It has

been filed with regard to a case arising out of FIR No.159 dated 05.07.2024.

The above-mentioned FIR has been filed for the commission of offence

punishable under Sections 420 and 120-B of Indian Penal Code, Police Station

City Panipat, District Panipat. 2. Briefly stating the facts emerging from record are that the above-

mentioned FIR has come came into being on a joint complaint filed by several

complainants, namely Sandeep Kumar and others, who have alleged that Ved

 1 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 03-03-2026 22:46:15 ::: CRM-M-3167-2025 (O&M)

Parkash, Randhir Chauhan, Jai Singh Chauhan, Yashvir, Sudhir Kumar and

Harsh Yadav etc. were trading in the name of a company, namely 'Oneness

For Investment In Commercial Enterprises and Management LLC', registered

in Dubai. According to complainant, the above-named accused, in connivance

and conspiracy with other accused, got invested money of

complainants/investors in the above-mentioned company and later on refused

to return the same. It has also been complained by the above-named

complainants that when request for return of money was raised by the

complainants, the accused started threatening the complainants, and thereafter,

absconded with all the invested money. It has been further alleged by the

complainant that out of invested money about Rs.12,00,00,000/- were paid

through bank transactions and Rs.25,00,00,000/- in cash. As per complainant

the accused Ved Parkash under a conspiracy with other co-accused Harsh

Yadav and Mohit Sharma have cheated bona fide depositors. 3. As per facts projected by the prosecution, on receipt of above-

mentioned complaint the 'Economic Crime Wing' of Panipat Police was

assigned the duty to conduct an enquiry and submit a report. In view of above

initial enquiry was carried out by Sub Inspector Satpal Singh, who joined

several complainants in the enquiry and recorded their statements. However,

the accused did not join the enquiry. Rather he was found missing. According

to prosecution on the analysis of statement of above-named complainant, and

the material collected by the enquiry officer, it was reported by the above-

named enquiry officer that Ved Parkash (petitioner herein) had started a

company in the name of 'Oneness For Investment In Commercial Enterprises

& Management LLC' in Dubai and trapped various persons to invest on the

 2 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 03-03-2026 22:46:16 ::: CRM-M-3167-2025 (O&M)

false pretext of profit at the rate of 9% to 10%. As per report the petitioner

made tempting promises to the investors of Dubai visit and got deposited

money in USDT (US dollar tether), in his own account as well as in the

account of his wife Omwati and son Harsh. It has also been reported by the

above-said enquiry officer that under a well planned scheme, by adopting the

above-mentioned modus operandi, various investors have been cheated and the

quantum of such amount is to the extent of Rs.37,00,00,000/- (in total). 4. It is the case of the prosecution that in the above-mentioned report

the enquiry officer has concluded that the cognizable offences punishable

under Sections 420 / 120-B / 467 / 468 / 471 of IPC are made out against the

petitioner. According to prosecution in view of above-mentioned

recommendations, made by the above-named Enquiry Officer, the FIR of this

case has been lodged and the investigation taken up. 5. Heard. 6. It has been contended by learned counsel for the petitioner that the

petitioner is innocent, having no nexus, whatsoever, with the commission of

crime, and that he has been falsely implicated in the present case. It has also

been contended by learned counsel for the petitioner that the petitioner has all

good intentions to return the money of investors, and that with the same

motive, he entered into compromise with various investors and promised to

return the money. According to learned counsel for the petitioner in view of

above-mentioned bona fide stand of the petitioner, by virtue of order dated

28.02.2025, the benefit of interim bail was accorded to the petitioner and he

was released on bail. 7. It has been further contended by learned counsel for the petitioner

 3 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 03-03-2026 22:46:16 ::: CRM-M-3167-2025 (O&M)

that despite best efforts by the petitioner the money could not be returned as

against the payment of money the petitioner had asked the investors to issue

receipts, but the complainant and other investors due to undue pressure exerted

by senior gazetted officers, who clandestinely invested ill-gotten money, have

instigated the complainant and other investors not to issue receipt and in such

circumstances the petitioner has not been able to fulfill his promise. The thrust

of argument of learned counsel for the petitioner has been upon the plea that

there has been no mens rea on the part of the petitioner to cheat the investors,

and therefore, no offence under Sections 420 / 120-B / 467 / 468 / 471 of IPC, for

which the petitioner is being prosecuted is made out. In support of his above-

mentioned contentions, the learned counsel for the petitioner has referred to

various compromise-deeds, placed on record. The above-mentioned deeds

show that the compromises had been reduced into writing, not only between

the petitioner and investors, but also between other accused involved in the

present case and the investors. 8. In addition to above, it has also been contended by learned

counsel for the petitioner that a false FIR has been lodged against the petitioner

in order to spoil the business of the petitioner, and that the influence being

exercised by various force behind the above-mentioned move, against the

petitioner, has projected a magnified issue, with regard to allegations against

the petitioner. As per learned counsel for the petititioner a simple default in

payment of invested money, without any element of cheating has been given

the shape of criminal act and the FIR has been lodged which has created such a

situation for the petitioner, that he is continuously on the run. 9. It has also been contended by learned counsel for the petitioner

 4 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 03-03-2026 22:46:16 ::: CRM-M-3167-2025 (O&M)

that otherwise also the offence allegedly committed by the petitioner is triable

by the Court of Judicial Magistrate, and the maximum punishment prescribed

for the offence under Section 420 IPC is imprisonment up to 07 years.

According to learned counsel for the petitioner since the custodial interrogation

of the petitioner is not required, the petitioner is entitled for the benefit of bail. 10. Per contra, the learned State counsel being assisted by learned

counsel for the complainant has argued that in the present case there are very

serious allegations against the petitioner, to the effect that the petitioner and his

co-accused have cheated a large number of investors as on the basis of false

claims, they were prompted to invest money in the company of petitioner. As

per learned State counsel, when the money has been invested, now without any

legal basis the petitioner and his co-accused have usurped the entire money,

and is refusing to return the same to the investors. 11. While opposing the bail petition, the learned Sate counsel has

contended that the petitioner is the kingpin of entire scam, and that the manner

in which the instant offence has been committed, comes within the ambit of

financial fraud and being an economic offence, as per principles of law laid

down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in various judicial

pronouncements, the same should be dealt without any sympathy for the

perpetrator of crime. In support of his arguments the learned State counsel has

relied upon the principles of law laid down in the cases of 'Y.S. Jagan Mohan

Reddy vs. Central Bureau of Investigation ' AIR 2013 Supreme Court 1933,

'Serious Fraud Investigation Office vs. Nitin Johri' AIR 2019 Supreme Court

4380, 'Satender Kumar Antil vs. Central Bureau of Investigation & Anr.' 2021(4) RCR(Criminal)421. 5 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 03-03-2026 22:46:16 ::: CRM-M-3167-2025 (O&M) 12. The learned counsel for the complainants during the course of his

arguments has specifically targeted the conduct of the petitioner. It has been

pointed out by learned counsel for the complainant that petitioner is a person,

who has scant respect for the rule of law, and that the petitioner has not just

cheated the investors, but also played with the judicial system, as on false

pretext of returning money to the investors, he impressed the Court and

secured interim bail, vide order dated 28.02.2025. As per learned counsel for

the complainants, once released on interim bail, despite lapse of almost one

year, the petitioner has not paid even a single penny to the complainants, with

whom he had entered into compromise. It has also been contended by learned

counsel for the complainant that in the present case the false excuses are being

made by the petitioner, who has no intention to return the money of investors. 13. In addition to above, it has also been contended by learned

counsel for the complainant that another conduct of the petitioner to be

considered by this Court is that the petitioner is facing similar type of several

other prosecutions and in those cases he is an absconder. While claiming that

by entering into compromise the liability has been duly admitted by the

petitioner. It has been contended by learned counsel for the complainant that

without payment of money, if benefit of bail is accorded to the petitioner he

will definitely misuse the same by tampering with the evidence and

influencing the witnesses. 14. The record has been perused carefully. 15. A perusal of record shows that the role attributed to the petitioner

in the present case is that, that the petitioner had received funds in

contravention of Banning of Unregulated Deposit Scheme Act 2019, without

 6 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 03-03-2026 22:46:16 ::: CRM-M-3167-2025 (O&M)

any licence. As per prosecution the petitioner was involved in Forex Trading in

association with co-accused Randhir Singh & Jai Singh, and formed company

named 'FXONENESS'. The co-accused Randhir Singh was made the

Managing Director of this company. The petitioner and the co-accused used to

take money from investors in cash and used to buy USDT for some amount, as

buying of Crypto currency through cash is not permissible in India and, can be

only traded through accounts only. The complainants namely Pardeep,

Sandeep Kumar, Subhash Chand, Sanjay Sharma, Shiv Charan and Praveen

invested money in the company of petitioner and the amount, so collected, paid

through sent to Yes Bank account No.106163400000632 and HDFC Bank

account No.50100518221801. There have been transactions of about

Rs.16,88,04,317/- in the account of the petitioner. The petitioner is stated to be

the central figure of the entire racket, who entered into criminal conspiracy

with others to usurp money of the complainants, who under the pretext of

trading. The quantum of such amount is to the tune of Rs.37,00,00,000/-. 16. With regard to facts and circumstances of the case the principles laid down in the case of 'Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy ' (supra), are relevant. It has

been observed in the above-mentioned case that economic offences constitute a

class apart and need to be visited with a different approach in a matter of bail,

as economic offences have deep rooted conspiracies and involve huge loss of

public funds which needs to be viewed seriously. 17. Similarly in the case of 'Serious Fraud Investigation Office'

(supra), the view taken in 'Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy ' (supra) case has been

reiterated. 18. In the case of 'Satender Kumar Antil ' (supra), the Hon'ble

 7 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 03-03-2026 22:46:16 ::: CRM-M-3167-2025 (O&M)

Supreme Court of India has observed that economic offences do form a

different nature of offence and thus seriousness of the charge has to be taken

into account but simultaneously the severity of punishment imposed by the

statute would also be a factor. 19. A perusal of record shows that in the present case, following are

the factors which are required to be taken into consideration for a decision: - 8 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 03-03-2026 22:46:16 ::: CRM-M-3167-2025 (O&M) v) that quantum of amount to which the complainants have

 been cheating and the number of complainants are

 numerous, which speaks in volume against the petitioner. 20. Taking into consideration the cumulative effect of all the above-

mentioned factors, it is hereby held that in this case, the petitioner is not

entitled for the benefit of bail and the present petition is devoid of merits.

Hence, the same is hereby dismissed accordingly. 21. The petitioner is directed to surrender before the jail authorities

forthwith. (SURYA PARTAP SINGH)
 JUDGE

26.02.2026
vipin
 Whether speaking/reasoned Yes/No
 Whether reportable Yes/No

 9 of 9 ::: Downloaded on - 03-03-2026 22:46:16 :::