Heard learned Senior Counsel Mr.Asim Pandya with
Mr.Gaurav Vyas, learned advocate for the applicants and learned
Advocate Mr.Nirav Padhiyar for org. complainant nd learned APP
Mr.HK Patel, for respondent - State. 2. By way of the present petition under Section 438 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, the petitioners have prayed
to release them on anticipatory bail in case of his arrest in
connection with the FIR registered as I-C.R. No.7 of 2022
registered with the CID Crime, Ahmedabad Zone Police Station,
Ahmedabad for the offence punishable under Section 114 , 120(8) , 406 , 409 , 420 , 468 , 471 , 474 , 477(6) , 506 of the Indian
Penal Code, 1860 and Section 3 of The Gujarat Protection of
Interest of Depositors (In Financial Establishments) Act, 2003
(hereafter " GPID Act "). NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/13338/2023 ORDER DATED: 03/05/2024

 undefined 3. The case of the prosecution as emerging from FIR in
nutshell is that one Mr.Vasim Raja as the main accused and is
primarily associated with the Ketsaal Retail LLP (for short the
company). The accused-Vasim Raja has floated this company.
The complainant came in his contact and invested the amount in
the said company and had done business since December, 2018
to 2021 and got the investment promise by Vasim Raja even
during the difficult period of COVID-19; but once the business of
the company has been weaken Mr.Vaim Raja could not pay the
compromise returns to the complainant and therefore he has
filed the false and frivolous FIR against the present petitioners. 4. Learned Senior Counsel Mr.Pandya would submit that
basically this is an FIR demonstrating that how the business
transaction can be converted into the criminal act and action.
When narrating this fact, learned senior counsel Mr.Pandya
would submit that present petitioners were silent partners of the
company and they had never promise to the complainant. They
have never lured the complainant to invest any amount in the
company. He would further submit that since the petitioners are
the silent partners of the company, it could not be said that they
have played active role in commission of the offence for luring
the complainant to invest the amount. In view of that, no
offence as alleged is made out against the petitioners from the
FIR. 4.1 Learned Senior Counsel Mr.Pandya would further submit
that in fact Vasim Raja could not said to be accused in offence
as he has never promised to return any amount; but the
complainant on his own invested the amount in the company Page 2 of 15 Downloaded on : Wed May 08 20:35:15 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/13338/2023 ORDER DATED: 03/05/2024

 undefined

and since the business could not work properly, lose occurred
and therefore there is no question of comitting the offence under
Section 406 or there is any criminal breach of trust or forgery or
fabricating the documents and to present them as genuine. He
would further submit that in absence of intention to disclose or
cheat the complainant, prima facie no offence is made out as
alleged in the FIR. 4.2 Learned Senior Counsel Mr.Pandya would further submit
that in view of promise cheque worth Rs.12 Crores has been
deposited under the GPID Act, 2003 ; the bungalow jointly
occupied by Vasim Raja with the present petitioners has been
attached by the authority and value thereof is Rs.15.00 Crore so
majority of the amount which is involved in the offence is
secured and in view of that present petitioners are secured with
the authority and therefore present petitioners may be granted
anticipatory bail. 4.3 Learned Senior Counsel Mr.Pandya would further submit
that petitioners are readily available for investigation and would
join the investigation as and when required. There is no flight
risk if the petitioners are enlarged on anticipatory bail. 4.4 Insofar as the issuance of warrant under Section 70 of the
Cr.PC is concerned, learned Senior Counsel Mr.Pandya would
submit that in a judgment of Hon'ble Apex Court in case of Srikant Upadhyay & Ors. vs. State of Bihar & Anr. , [2024 SCC
Online SC 282] no absolute ban has been applied in granting
anticipatory bail or pre-arrest bail where the warrant under
Section 70 has been issued. He would further submit that there Page 3 of 15 Downloaded on : Wed May 08 20:35:15 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/13338/2023 ORDER DATED: 03/05/2024

 undefined

are some exceptional circumstances and if it is established, the
Court can grant the pre-arrest bail to the accused. 4.5 Learned Senior Counsel Mr.Pandya would further submit
that though in a present case warrant under Section 70 of Cr.PC
has been issued against the petitioners, no legal procedure has
been followed by the concerned IO or the Court concerned.
Firstly, the summons is required to be issued; then bailable and
non-bailable warrant is required to be served. Since the legal
procedure has not been followed, issuance of warrant under
Section 70 itself is illegal and that by itself is an exceptional
circumstances to grant anticipatory bail. He would further
submit that process to compel appearance has been defined in
Chapter-6 of Cr.PC and Part B is defining warrant of arrest.
When Police Officer has to execute the warrant outside the
jurisdiction, he has to follow the procedure laid down in Section
79 of Cr.PC which in the present case has not been followed in
letter and spirit and therefore, issuance of warrant under Section
70 of Cr.PC is illegal procedure and it would not come in way of
petitioners to seek pre-arrest bail. 4.6 Upon above submissions, learned Senior Counsel
Mr.Pandya prayed to grant anticipatory bail to the petitioners. 5. On the other hand, learned advocate Mr.Nirav Padhiyar for
complainant would submit that in total Rs.39,19,00,929/- have
been swindled and / or siphoned away by the present petitioners
alongwith main accused Vasim Raja. He would further submit
that this is one of the FIR; apart from this at least four other
FIRs are registered against the present petitioners for committing Page 4 of 15 Downloaded on : Wed May 08 20:35:15 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/13338/2023 ORDER DATED: 03/05/2024

 undefined

scam. These FIRs are registered in the different parts of the
country which indicates that the petitioners are doing the
organized white collar crime and this is an economic offence
where investment of investors running in crores of rupees have
been duped. 5.1 Taking this Court through page no.124, 131, 143 and 157
of the compilation, learned advocate Mr.Padhiyar would submit
that there are four other FIRs registered against the petitioners
as well alongwith other accused which indicates that he is using
the same modus operandi for siphoning of the money. He would
further submit that main accused Vasim Raja was released by
the trial Court after filing of the charge-sheet and upon condition
to deposit the amounts. However, Vasim Raja has misused his
liberty granted by the trial Court and he did not comply with the
condition and run away and therefore learned trial Court has
cancelled the bail granted to the accused. He would submit that
insofar as the cheques of Rs.12.00 Crores given against promise
concerned of the account of the petitioners; the same are empty
and there is no amount lying in the petitioners' bank account
which would meet with the clearance of cheque of Rs.12.00
Crores. So, this is an eye-wash to get the bail. He would further
submit that in total the investment of 160 persons are siphoned
totaling Rs.39.90 Crore is involved in the large-scale economic
offence and considering this aspect, the petitioners may not be
enlarged on anticipatory bail. 6. Addition to the above submissions of learned Advocate
Mr.Padhiyar appearing for the org. complainant, learned APP for
respondent - State Mr.Patel would submit that it is incorrect to Page 5 of 15 Downloaded on : Wed May 08 20:35:15 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/13338/2023 ORDER DATED: 03/05/2024

 undefined

say that the petitioners are not involved in the offence or they
are merely silent partners of the company. He would further
submit that all three petitioners are partners since 16/08/2017
prior to the investment by the complainant and other victims
have started investing the amount. He would submit that one of
the petitioners Sohail Raja Khan was consistently in touch with
the complainant and other investors and was luring them to
invest in the company. All three accused were authorized
signatory of the Bank Accounts of company at Noida. One of the
accused Mohan Raja Hamid Raja Khan is also the Director in
five other sister concerned company and there are inter se
transactions between them. Out if siphoning amount of Rs.40/-
Crores and odd amount, the petitioners have got some share and
this amount are invested in their bank account. He would
further submit that a joint bungalow in C-97 Sector Noida has
been purchased in the name of accused-Vasim Raja and
consideration of the bungalow was paid from the account of the
company. In view of this transaction, all the accused are equally
responsible in commission of offence. He would further submit
that statement of accused-Vasim Raja is totally misconceived
statement and cannot be acted upon which reiterating the
incident mentioned at page no.124, 131, 143 and 157 of the
compilation. 6.1 Learned APP would submit that petitioners are habitual
offenders and typical modus operandi is used to dupe the hard
earn money of the investors running in crores of rupee and
therefore, they may not be granted anticipatory bail. Lastly, it is
submitted that charge-sheet in the present case is filed on
04/10/2022 before the learned trial Court and therefore warrant Page 6 of 15 Downloaded on : Wed May 08 20:35:15 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/13338/2023 ORDER DATED: 03/05/2024

 undefined

under Section 70 of Cr.PC is obtained against the present
petitioners and they are running from the investigation. In view
of the latest pronouncement of the Hon'ble Apex Court, person
who is running from the investigation should not be granted
anticipatory bail and therefore it is submitted that anticipatory
bail applications may be rejected. 6.2 Making above submissions, learned APP would submit to
reject this application. 7. Having heard the learned advocates appearing for the rival
sides, at the outset, it is to be noted that as many as four
identical FIRs are registered against the present petitioners
before the different Police Stations and in the different parts of
the country; list of which reads thus: 8. It is sought to be established that petitioners are habitual
offender and by luring the investors, they are duping the money
of the investors. It is undeniable aspect that warrant under Section 70 of Cr.PC has been issued by the concerned trial Court
against the present petitioners. The issuance of warrant was
never challenged by present petitioners and therefore, petitioners
are not legally entitled to challenge the legality of issuance of
warrant in the bail proceedings. To be noted further that, in a
case where charge-sheet is filed in the year 2022 and petitioners
are on run, warrant under section 70 of Cr.PC has been issued
by the trial Court after specifying the material available with IO.
Learned APP Mr.Patel has tried to elaborate this issue by arguing
that fore more than once the IO went to the house of the accused
to find out the petitioners; but the family members of the
petitioners replied that they are not in touch with them and in
that event in absence of any alternative, IO has approached the
trial Court for seeking warrant under Section 70; which trial
Court has grated after satisfying with the material available on
record. It cannot be gainsaid that petitioners are not co-
operating in the investigation where the offence involved of
duping the hard earned money of the investors running in
crores. 9. In Srikant Upadhyay & Ors. vs. State of Bihar & Anr. ,
(supra), in paragraph 24 the Hon'ble Apex court has held as
under: 10. Petitioners are concealing from investigation. They are
treated as absconding. In the charge-sheet, they are shown as
absconder which prima facie establish that petitioners are
running from the investigation, they could not given relief of
anticipatory bail being extraordinary in nature. Useful reference
can be taken from the judgment Prem Shanker Prasad vs. State
of Bihar 2022 14) SCC 516 and Lavesh Versus State (Govt Of
Nct Of Delhi) [2012 (8) SCC 730] . In Lavesh (supra), the Hon'ble
Apex court has observed in paragraph 10 as under: and declared as a "proclaimed offender", there is no question of
 granting anticipatory bail. We reiterate that when a person against
 whom a warrant had been issued and is absconding or concealing
 himself in order to avoid execution of warrant and declared as a
 proclaimed offender in terms of Section 82 of the Code is not entitled
 the relief of anticipatory bail." Applying the above ratio to the present case, it reveals that
the petitioners are on run and therefore, petitioners are not
entitled to the grant of anticipatory bail. The conduct of main
accused - Vasim Raja would also require to be noticed because Page 9 of 15 Downloaded on : Wed May 08 20:35:15 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/13338/2023 ORDER DATED: 03/05/2024

 undefined

the bail has been granted by the learned trial Court on
19/02/2024 and he is on run. That apart, this is a huge
economic scam. The petitioners have lured the investors to
invest their money and initially by giving them returns obtained
them into confidence and thereafter investment have been
duped. To be noted that all the accused are on run. 11. It was tried to pursued by learned senior counsel
Mr.Pandya for the petitioners that the bungalow is jointly owned
by the petitioners with other accused and therefore amount of
investors which are alleged to have been duped is secured. This
submission has no relevance with granting of bail. It is not at
the instance of the petitioners that the said bungalow was
attached. The authority under the proceedings of GPID have
attached the bungalow and it is a legal procedure which
authority is required to undertake under the Act and therefore, it
could not come to the rescue of the present petitioners. It is
incorrect to say that because of the bungalow owned by the
petitioner is attached, he could be given the bail. 12. One more strange arguments is canvassed that since the
procedure under part-B of Chapter - 7 of Cr.PC has not been
followed, issuance of summons under Section 70 can be termed
as illegal procedure. Without questioning the issuance of
warrant under section 70 such word cannot lie in the mouth of
the petitioners who are on run from the investigation. This
tactful words cannot be attract the extraordinary discretion of
this Court to grant pre-arrest bail. 13. This is a sheer economic offence designed with cool mind Page 10 of 15 Downloaded on : Wed May 08 20:35:15 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/13338/2023 ORDER DATED: 03/05/2024

 undefined

and executed systematically to dupe / swindle the hard-earn
money of the investors and therefore, it could be viewed from the
different angle. Questioning the exercise of discretion in the
economic offence, the Hon'ble Apex court in the case of Tarun
Kumar Versus Assistant Director Directorate Of Enforcement
[2024 (0) AIR(SC) 169] after referring earlier decisions has held
in paragraph 22 and 23 as under: 23. With the advancement of technology and Artificial Intelligence, the
 economic offences like money laundering have become a real threat to
 the functioning of the financial system of the country and have
 become a great challenge for the investigating agencies to detect and
 comprehend the intricate nature of transactions, as also the role of Page 11 of 15 Downloaded on : Wed May 08 20:35:15 IST 2024 NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/13338/2023 ORDER DATED: 03/05/2024

 undefined

 the persons involved therein. Lot of minute exercise is expected to be
 undertaken by the Investigating Agency to see that no innocent
 person is wrongly booked and that no culprit escapes from the
 clutches of the law. When the detention of the accused is continued
 by the Court, the courts are also expected to conclude the trials
 within a reasonable time, further ensuring the right of speedy trial
 guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution." 14. In case of Bhadresh Bipinbhai Sheth Vs. State of Gujarat reported in AIR 2015 SC 3090, the Hon'ble Apex Court
delineated the following factors and parameters that needs to be
taken into consideration while dealing with the anticipatory bail. 15. In case of Pratibha Manchanda and another Vs. State of
Haryana and another reported in (2023) 8 SCC 181, the Hon'ble
Apex Court in para 21, observed as under:- 16. In case of P.Chidambaram Versus Central Bureau Of
Investigation [2020 (13) SCC 337] , the Hon'ble Apex Court has
observed in paragraph 22 as under: 17. Ordinarily, arrest is a part of the procedure of the
investigation to secure not only the presence of the accused, but
several other purposes. Power u/s 438 of the Code is an
extraordinary power and the same has to be exercise sparingly in
appropriate and fit case. This privilege should be extended only
in exceptional cases. It is a judicial discretion conferred upon the
court, and it is to be properly exercised after application of mind
as to the nature and gravity of the accusation, possibility of the
applicant fleeing from justice and other factors to decide whether
it is a fit case for grant of anticipatory bail. Grant of anticipatory
bail to some extent interferes in the sphere of investigation of an
offence and hence, the Court must be circumspect while
exercising such power for grant of anticipatory bail. Anticipatory
bail is not to be granted as a matter of rule and it has to be
granted only when the Court is convinced that exceptional
circumstances exist to resort to that extraordinary remedy.
Striking of balance of investigation and personal liberty is
another factor needs to be properly weigh. The fact of the case
demands custodial interrogation of the petitioner. Under the
circumstances, the petitioner is not entitled for anticipatory bail. NEUTRAL CITATION

 R/CR.MA/13338/2023 ORDER DATED: 03/05/2024

 undefined 18. For the foregoing reasons, present petition fails and stands
dismissed. (J. C. DOSHI,J)
sompura Page 15 of 15 Downloaded on : Wed May 08 20:35:15 IST 2024