17.05.2024

SASHIKANTA MISHRA, J. These Bail Applications have arisen out of the same

 case and involve common questions of fact and law. As

 such, both the applications were heard together and are

 being disposed of by this common order. 2. The petitioners, in BLAPL No. 14644 of 2023 (Manoj

 Kumar Pattnaik) and BLAPL No 14599 of 2023 (Basanta

 Kumar Pradhan), are in custody since 17.11.2023 in

 connection with EOW CID C.B. Bhubaneswar, Odisha P.S.

 Case No. 25 of 2023 dated 16.10.2023 corresponding to C.T.

 case No. 124 of 2023 pending in the Court of learned

 Presiding Officer, Designated Court (under the OPID Act ) at

 Cuttack for the alleged commission of Offence under Section

 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 120-B of IPC read with Section 4 , 5 and 6 of Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning)

 Act 1978 (PCMCS) read with Section 6 of OPID Act and Section 66-C of Information Technology Act. Page 2 of 16 Prosecution Case 3. The Inspector of Police (EOW Bhubaneswar) Rina

Behera lodged an FIR on 16.10.2023 before the S.P. EOW on

the basis of a complaint received from one Swagat Kumar

Nayak against the CEO of Yes World, Sandeep Chowdhury,

the present petitioners and other unnamed persons. It is

alleged that the Petitioners, by targeting private individuals

have been encouraging them to invest in crypto currency,

Yes World Token by building a network of members. The

investors are asked to recruit further investors on payment

of interest or bonus which is expected to increase

corresponding to the number of members added by them.

The Company aimed to promote Save Earth Mission and

Green Energy by increasing investment in its crypto

currency, i.e. Yes Token. The complaint further revealed

that the complainant came in contact with accused Manoj

Kumar Pattnaik at Press Club Bhubaneswar, wherein the

accused enticed him to invest in crypto currency in lieu of

higher returns upon adding new members to the network. It

is further alleged that Manoj Kumar Pattnaik added the

informant to the whatsapp group 'Yes World Save Earth' Page 3 of 16 that consisted of both the petitioners along with other

members. After joining the group, accused Basant Kumar

Pradhan urged him to add new members under his wallet

ID. Following this, he created 5 more IDs on behalf of his

family members and invested INR 62,000, which is in

addition to INR 18,000 that he invested while creating his

own Trust wallet ID, taking his total investment to INR

80,000. They convinced local persons through public

meetings to join their network. As such, the meetings were

presided by the petitioners, who logged into their personal

ID during the meeting to demonstrate their incomes and

encouraged the attendees to usher in new participants

under their network chain for which they shall be earning

referral income, staking bonus, and membership bonus

proportional to the amount invested by the new

participants. The complaint further alleged that all his IDs

have been frozen as that of several others along with various

other people's and the accused persons have thereby duped

people of their hard earned money by operating a Ponzi /

Multi-Level Marketing (MLM) Scheme in the name of a fake

crypto currency company and/or Token. Page 4 of 16 4. Basing on such FIR, the aforementioned P.S. Case was

registered and investigation was taken up. In course of

investigation the petitioners were taken to custody on

17.11.2023 and several documents were seized, besides

recording of the statements of several persons. 5. Heard Ms. Deepali Mahapatra, learned Counsel

appearing for the petitioners and Mr J.P. Patra learned

counsel appearing for the State in OPID Matters.

Submissions 6. Ms. Mahapatra, learned Counsel would argue that the

entire case of the prosecution is based on misunderstanding

and erroneous perception of the investigating agency as

regards the use of crypto currency. Moreover, the essential

ingredients of the alleged offences are not made out at the

least. Further, there is absolutely no evidence to show that

the petitioner had induced any person to trade in crypto

currency or to make any investment therein. There is also

no evidence to show that any amount was paid to him by

any investors. In any event, crypto currency is also a legal Page 5 of 16 tender as held by the Supreme Court in the case of Internet

Mobile Association of India V. Reserve Bank of India.1

Ms. Mahapatra would further argue that the prosecution

has been launched against the petitioner on a

misconception regarding the crypto currency and its

transactions. She also argues that the essential ingredients

of the alleged offences are not made out. In this regard Ms.

Mahapatra would argue that crypto currency is not 'money'

within the meaning of Section 2(b) of PCMCS Act 1978, for

which the offences under Section 4 , 5 and 6 of said Act are

not made out. Similarly, according to Ms. Mahapatra, the

allegation of commission of offence under Section 6 of the

OPID Act is also misconceived, since the amount invested by

the individuals to trade in crypto currency cannot be treated

as 'deposit' within the meaning of Section 2-b of the OPID

Act. As regards the IPC offences also, Ms. Mahapatra makes

similar submissions and contends that there is absolutely

no proof to show that the petitioner had acted fraudulently

or with the specific intent to cheat any person. She further

argues that the petitioners never promised returns to any 1 2020 SCC online SC 275 Page 6 of 16 person which would be evident from the statements of the

witnesses examined by the I.O. most of whom have stated

that they were induced to invest being attracted by the

prospect of getting higher returns. No one has stated that he

was directly or indirectly induced by the petitioner to

deposit. Explaining the working of the scheme, Ms.

Mahapatra submits that the amount credited is on a person

to platform basis (P 2 P) and is kept in a Trust Wallet in a

secured manner. It is not open to any person, other than the

investor, to deal with such amount. Additionally, Ms. Mahapatra, argues that the Supreme

Court in the case of Internet and Mobile Association of

India (supra) has categorically held that as on date, virtual

currencies are not banned by the Reserve Bank of India or

the Government of India. 7. Mr. J.P. Patra, learned State Counsel appearing in

OPID matters would argue that the transactions effected by

the petitioners are nothing but part of a Ponzi Scheme and

that they have obtained crores of rupees in the name of

crypto currency. The entire modus operandi of the

petitioners is to lure ordinary people into making Page 7 of 16 investments on the promise of getting attractive returns in

future. The petitioners have cleverly manipulated their

operations only to cheat the Investigating Agencies, but

investigation has clearly revealed that they were running a

Ponzi Scheme. Mr. Patra further contends that unlike other

crypto currencies, the investor in Yes World Token does not

have full control over his wallet since it is dependent upon

addition of members and further that when the members

are not added, the wallet would be suspended. Mr. Patra

further submits that investigation revealed that the scheme

was being operated as a pyramid structure, wherein persons

like the petitioners were placed at different levels of the

structure depending on the money earned by them through

bonus, commission, royalty etc. All the persons investing

money in Yes World Token have been assured of higher

returns which is not to be found in case of other crypto

currencies. In the process, huge amounts were collected

from different persons. Analysis 8. I have heard the rival submissions at length and have

perused the materials on record including the case diary Page 8 of 16 produced by learned counsel for OPID carefully. A bare

reading of the FIR would suggest that the petitioners have

been alleged to have convinced local persons through

personal interactions and public meetings to join their

network. As such, thousands of people are said to have

become active members of Yes World Token. The statements

of a few persons have been recorded by the I.O. during

investigation. It would be relevant to refer to statements of

some such witnesses in order to appreciate the prosecution

allegations. One, Debadutta Basantaray, states that being

induced by the petitioners, he has become a member by

investing Rs. 2 lakh/-. Further, he was explained the

scheme by petitioners in the following words: 9. Similar statements has been given by Akshaya Kumar

Dash, Premananda Mohanty, Sangram Kesari Panda, and Page 9 of 16 Ranjan Sahoo. Not a single person so examined has stated

to have paid any amount to the petitioners nor about any

promise being made of getting higher returns on such

investment by him. The only thing that is evident from a

reading of the statements is that the several persons were

asked to enroll new members which would enhance their

earnings. 10. Accepting the prosecution case as such, this Court is

unable to appreciate as to how this act can constitute any of

the offences alleged. As is evident, the members of the

public who participated in trading in crypto currency appear

to have done so on their own free will and volition as also on

the desire of getting higher returns. There is not a whisper

of allegation that the Petitioners had promised them higher

returns on their investment as usually happens in case of a

Ponzi Scheme. Insofar as the PCMCS Act is concerned, Section 2(b) thereof defines money as follows;- Yes World Token, on the other hand, is a crypto

currency which is purchased by the investors indirectly by Page 10 of 16 purchasing USTD or by directly buying it through upline

workers in cash and thereafter, kept in their respective

Trust Wallets. Therefore, Yes World Token cannot be said to

be money within the meaning of the Act. Such being the

case, naturally, the offences under Section 4 , 5 and 6 of the

said Act would prima facie not be made out. 11. Coming to the offence under Section 6 of the OPID Act

is seen that Section 2(b) of the Act defines 'deposit' as

follows;- Thus, the essential ingredient required to invoke Section 6 of the OPID Act is that some money must have been

deposited either in lump sum or by installments with the

financial establishment. In the instant case, as already

stated Yes World Token, being a crypto currency, is not

deposited in any financial establishment but is kept secure

in a Trust Wallet. This appears to have been interpreted as

'deposit' within meaning of section 2(b) of the OPID Act and

sought to be projected as a Ponzi Scheme. There is an

essential difference between deposits in a Ponzi scheme and Page 11 of 16 trading in crypto currency. In the case of Internet and

Mobile Association of India (supra), the Supreme Court

held that the ban imposed by RBI on use of digital currency

is unreasonable and therefore, struck it down. It was held

that virtual currencies are valid mode of payments in the

exchange of goods and services and do not violate the

provisions of Payments Settlements and Systems Act, 2007 .

The following observations made by the Supreme Court are

worthy of note;- 12. It is clear that mere dealing in crypto currency cannot

be treated as illegal in any manner. Thus, the offence under Section 6 of OPID Act is also not made out. 13. As regards the IPC offences, in view of what has been

narrated hereinbefore, it is evident that the petitioners can

only be said to have attempted to convince members of the

public to trade in crypto currency Yes World Token. There is

nothing on record to show that they had dishonestly

induced any person to deliver any property to them. In other

words, there is no evidence whatsoever of any money being

transferred from any person to the petitioners. The

Petitioners may have earned commission/bonus from the

company for convincing the public to invest in crypto

currency but that by itself cannot partake the nature of

dishonest earning. The methodology adopted being person

to platform (P 2 P), it cannot be said that the petitioners had

cheated any person particularly in view of the fact that any Page 13 of 16 amount invested by any person remains secure in his or her

Trust Wallet. Thus, the offence under Section 420 does not

appear, prima facie, to be made out. There is no evidence

that any documents, records etc. were forged, manipulated,

manufactured etc. so as to attract the offences under Section 467 / 468 / 471 of IPC. Summation 14. From the forgoing narration, it is clear that the

petitioners were dealing with crypto currency which, as on

date which is per se, not illegal. There is no evidence to

show that they had convinced members of the general

public to invest in any company (financial establishment)

money on promise of high returns rather it is borne out from

the materials on record that the investors acted on their

own volition with the desire of higher returns. There is no

evidence to show that any person was defrauded or that his

investment was misappropriated by the petitioner. Further,

crypto currency is not money within the meaning of PCMCS

Act. Finally, the investment made by the general public in

crypto currency cannot partake the nature of deposit within Page 14 of 16 the meaning of OPID Act . Thus, there is no evidence of a

definite offence having been committed. The maxim nullum

sine crimen lege meaning there can be no crime without law

applies to the case at hand. It is needless to mention that

there is an absence of a proximal nexus between the

petitioners and the alleged offences. In the considered view

of this Court, therefore, detention of the petitioners in

custody, appears to be unjustified. Conclusion 15. In the result the bail applications are allowed. Let the

petitioners be released on bail on such terms and conditions

as the Court below may deem and fit proper to impose

including the following conditions;- 16. The BLAPLs are accordingly disposed of. ............................... Sashikanta Mishra,
 Judge

 Orissa High Court, Cuttack. The 17th May, 2024/ Deepak Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed Signed by: DEEPAK PARIDA Reason: Authentication Location: OHC,Cuttack Date: 17-May-2024 20:52:20 Page 16 of 16