The above titled cross appeals have been preferred against
the order dated 31.12.2018 of the Commissioner of Income Tax 2 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. (Appeals) [hereinafter referred to as the CIT(A)] relevant to
assessment year 1991-92. 2. The ground raised by the assessee are as under: a. The Ld.CIT(A) had exceeded the jurisdiction by invoking powers
 of enhancement. b. The enhancement was made without granting sufficient
 opportunity of hearing to the appellant and without considering
 submissions filed before him. c. The enhancement of income by Rs. 5,50,04,109/- based on
 alleged difference in the balances in cross accounts between the books of
 the appellant and books of Late Shri Harshad S. Mehta / M/s. Harshad S.
 Mehta was incorrect and unjustified. 20. The assessee craves leave to add to, alter, amend and/or delete all or any of
 the foregoing grounds of appeal." 3. The issue raised in 1st ground of appeal is against the order
of Ld. CIT(A) upholding the reopening of assessment under
section 147 of the Act by the AO. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. 4. The facts in brief are that the assessee has not filed any
return of income under section 139(1) of the Act. The AO
reopened the assessment under section 147 of the Act by
issuing notice under section 148 of the Act on 20.05.1992. The
assessee is a notified entity under Special Court (Trial of
Offences relating to transactions in securities) Act, 1992 and
part of Harshad Mehta Group which was linked to Stock Market
Scam of 1992. A search in the case of the assessee group was
conducted on 27.09.1990. Thereafter another search action was
conducted on the assessee on 28.02.1992 and finally
assessment was completed under 144 read with 147 of the Act
vide order dated 30.03.1994 at an assessed income of
Rs.58,43,64,832/-by relying on documents, floppies etc. seized
in the search action. Thereafter, the assessee filed appeal before
the Ld. CIT(A) and Ld. CIT(A) vide order dated 24.02.2000 partly
allowed the appeal of the assessee. Against the said order of Ld.
CIT(A) the assessee as well as the department filed appeals
before the Tribunal. The assessee also filed books of accounts
as additional evidence which were neither produced before AO
nor before Ld. CIT(A). The co-ordinate Bench of the Tribunal set
aside the matter back to the file of the AO with the direction to
do the assessment denovo after considering the additional
evidences submitted by the assessee in the form of books of
accounts after allowing reasonable opportunity of being heard. 5. The jurisdictional issue of invalid notice was also raised
before the Ld. CIT(A) but the same was dismissed by Ld. CIT(A)
by observing and holding as under: 6. The Ld. A.R. submitted before the Bench that the notice
issued under section 148 of the Act dated 20.05.1992 is an
invalid notice. The Ld. A.R. submitted that failure on the part of
the AO to issue notice under section 148 of the Act in
consonance with the provisions of the Act is a jurisdictional
defect which goes to the root and therefore can not be cured at
this stage. The Ld. A.R. submits that notice issued under
section 148 of the Act was invalid as the time limit to file the
return of income provided in the notice is less than what has
been prescribed on the Act. The Ld. A.R. referred to the
erstwhile provisions of section 148 of the Act prior to its
amendment by Finance (No.2) Act of 1996. The Ld. A.R.
submits that as per the pre-amended provisions of section 148 of the Act, the notice was to be issued on the assessee calling
upon the assessee to file the return of income within a period
being not less than 30 days. However, on perusal of the notice 6 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. issued under section 148 of the Act dated 20.05.1992, a copy of
which is placed at page No.1 of the paper book, it is clear that
AO had asked the assessee to file the return of income within 30
days from the date of its service of the notice which is contrary
to the provisions of section 148 of the Act. The Ld. A.R.,
therefore, prayed that the said notice issued by the AO, being
defective invalid and void ab-initio, the consequent
reassessment order passed based on such invalid notice is also
bad in law. The Ld. A.R. also submitted that subsequent to
passing of the impugned assessment order, there was
retrospective amendment in section 148 by Finance (No.2) Act of
1996 wherein the minimum time limit of 30 days for filing the
return of income was removed with effect from 01.04.1989. The
Ld. A.R. submits that the amendment in section 148 of the Act
will not affect the order already passed prior to such amendment
more so when there is no amendment validating the order
passed pursuant to such invalid notices. The Ld. A.R. also refers
to Section 6 of general clauses Act, 1987 which provides that
unless a different intention appears, the repeal of a provision
shall not affect the vested right available under any enactment
so repealed. Thus the Ld. A.R. prayed that these provisions also
support the above submissions of the assessee that orders
already passed shall not be affected by the retrospective
amendment. The Ld. A.R. submits that there is no intention to
validate the reassessment orders already passed under section
147 of the Act as on the date of such enactment. The Ld. A.R.
also refers to circular No.762 dated 18.02.1998 explaining the
reasoning for making amendment in section 148 of the Act and
submits that it was made because of the decision of Hon'ble 7 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. Bombay High Court and Hon'ble Mumbai Tribunal which has
held that notice giving less than 30 days time is invalid and the
said circular nowhere mentions that amendment will apply to
assessment orders passed before such date. The Ld. A.R. in
defence of his arguments relied on a series of decisions in the
related entities 's cases and submits that the issue is squarely
covered in favour of the assessee by the various decisions of the
co-ordinate Bench of the Tribunal as under: the return within the statutory time limit available under the
Act to disclose its income earned during the relevant assessment
year. The Ld. A.R. submits that before allowing the assessee to
file the return of income, it can not be presumed that some
income has escaped assessment and the assumption of
jurisdiction to reopen the assessment is contrary to the
provisions of the Act and bad in law. The Ld. A.R. relies on
explanation (2) to section 147 of the Act and also the following
decisions: jurisdictional defect which goes to the root of the reassessment
framed and consequently the same is invalid and void ab-initio.
The Ld. A.R. relied on the following decisions: Thus there is a difference between the period provided for filing 10 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. the return of income prior to and post amendment. We also
note that this amendment has been brought only to overcome
the situation created by the decision of Hon'ble Bombay High
Court in the case of CIT vs. Ekbal & Co. 13 ITR 154 and also the
various other decisions of the co-ordinate Bench of Bombay
Tribunal. Certainly the notice has been issued directing the
assessee to file the return within 30 days which is different from
the language provided in the section of not being less than 30
days. Therefore, we find merit in the contentions of the Ld. A.R.
that notice issued is invalid and void ab-initio and so is the
assessment proceedings and the consequent assessment framed
by the AO. The issue is covered by the various decisions of the
co-ordinate Benches of the Tribunal and the jurisdictional High
Court deciding this issue in favour of the assessee. In the case of Shri Ashwin S. Mehta vs. ACIT (supra) it has held that notice
issued under section 148 directing the assessee to file the return
of income within 30 days is invalid. The operative part is
reproduced as under: This according to the appellant is not the same thing as "not being less than thirty
days". No doubt the expression "not being less than thirty days has been removed
w.e.f. 01.04.1989 retrospectively by Finance Act, 1996 . The assessment under
section 143(3) rws 147 of the Act in this case has been completed on 24/03/1994.
The contention of the assessee is that the amendment in section 148 will not save
the order already passed prior to such amendment as there is no amendment
validating the order passed in pursuance to such invalid notices even if it is taken
the amendment saves the notice. 10. On this aspect, there is direct decision of our Coordinate Bench in Ashok Rao &
Co. Vs ACIT (supra). The relevant part of the order is extracted below: Apparently, the attempt of the legislature is to validate the notices issued
 u/s. 148(1) where the assessee were given time of less than 30days to file
 the returns. The contention of the Ld. Representative for the assessee
 however is that the amendment may validate the notices which pave less
 than 30 days time to the assesses to file the returns, but cannot validate the
 reassessments made In the meantime pursuant to the defective notices. In
 other words, his contention is that the reassessments made on 2.11.1993
 for both the4sessment years under appeal are null and void because of the
 defective notices and have not been validated by any validating amendment 12 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. and the mere validation of the notices cannot have the effect of validating
the reassessments also. To further elaborate, what he says is that the
assessee has obtained a vested right because of the validity of the
reassessments and such vested right cannot be taken away? merely
validating the notices pursuant to which they were made. There has to be,
according to the Ld. Representative for the assessee an amendment
expressly validating the reassessments also. 9. In support of the above contentions, the Ld. Representative for the
assesses cited the following three judgments:- These observations show that the defect which made the imposition of tax
illegal must be removed effectively. The question before us Is whether this
has been done in the present case by merely validating the notices. If the
earlier law laid down by the courts was that the Invalid notices Invalidate
the reassessment proceedings also, it would first appear that by merely
validating the notices, the reassessments would also be validated
automatically. However, we have to remember, as laid down by the Privy
Council (supra), that it must be clearly provided that the amending law
would disturb or take away the finality attained by the orders or the vested
rights of the assessee. When the reassessments in the present case made on
2.11.93 became null and void for want of proper notices, the assessee
acquired a vested right that no tax would be collected pursuant to them. If
the legislature wants to effectuate those reassessment orders by injecting
life to them, there must be a clear provision to that effect in the amending
law or necessary intendment, It is common ground that there is no c/ear
provision in the amending law to the effect that the reassessments made
pursuant to defective notices shall not be considered to be null and void and
the assessee 's in whose cases such reassessments had been made would
nevertheless be liable to pay tax pursuant thereto. Thus, there are no
express words in the amendment taking away the vested right of the
assessee that no tax will be collected from him pursuant to those
reassessments. The question however would be whether there is necessary
intendment - an intendment to the effect that since the notices am being
validated, the intention is also to validate the reassessments. We are unable
to spell out any necessary intendment, It may be that the legislature did not
want to disturb the reassessments already made pursuant to the defective
notices and wanted to save them from Challenge only where the
reassessment proceedings were pending. The Circular No 752 dated
182.1998 (reported at page 5228 of Volume lit) of the 5 Edition of
Chaturvedi & Pithisaria's income-tax law is as under: 11. Further the Coordinate Bench of this Tribunal in the case of Shri Lalit Sheth Vs.
ACIT and Vice Versa [ITA No. 7394/Mum/1996] wherein the similar facts of the
case, held that in absence of any express indication in the amending Act, the mere
validation of notice cannot validate the reassessment order passed before the date
of such amendment in absence of any express or implied intention of the
legislature. The decision of the Tribunal in the case of Shri Lalit Sheth Vs. ACIT (supra) has also been affirmed by the Hon'ble Bombay High Court in ITA No. 1570
of 2005 dated 29.09.2017. 12. We have also noticed that the jurisdictional High Court in assessee's group case
(brother case) in CIT Vs Sudhir S. Mehta [265 ITR 548] held that the notice u/s 148 of the Act giving less than 30 days time is invalid. In this case the Tribunal held that
there was no amendment in section 148 at the time of passing of the order dated
26.06.1996 and dismissed the application of the department. Against that order the
revenue filed appeal before Hon'ble Bombay High Court raising the following
question of low; The Hon'ble High Court passed the following order; 4. In the present case, the short point which arises for consideration is
 whether miscellaneous application filed by the Department was 16 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. maintainable under section 254(2) of the IT Act which states that mistake
 apparent from the record can be rectified by the Tribunal within four years
 from the date of its order. In this case, the reassessment proceedings were
 initiated vide notice dated 7th Nov., 1990. Under the provisions which
 existed on that date, it was provided under section 148(1) that in cases
 where the Assessing Officer had reason to believe that income had escaped
 assessment a notice had to be issued to an assessee for filing return of
 income within a specified period, not being less than thirty days. The
 (italicised in portion) became subject-matter of dispute in proceedings
 pending before various High Courts. In certain cases these notices were held
 to be invalid on the ground that where the Act allows the assessee time to
 file revised returns within a stipulated period under the Act, it was not open
 to the Assessing Officer to call upon the assessee to file the returns within
 thirty days - CIT v. Ekbal & Co. [1945] 13 ITR 154 (Bom.). In view of these
 conflicting decisions, the Legislature by virtue of Taxation Laws
 (Amendment) Act, 1996 , deleted the above expression "not being less than
 thirty days". However, the Taxation Law (Amendment) Act of 1996 got the
 Presidential assent on 28th Sept., 1996. No doubt, the Amending Act operated w.e.f. 1st April, 1989. However, the Amending Act got the
 Presidential assent only on 28th Sept., 1996, by which time the entire,
 gamut of reassessment proceedings, in this case, got concluded before the
 Tribunal when it allowed the appeal of the assessee striking down initiation
 of reassessment proceedings under the then existing law. That decision of
 the Tribunal was delivered on 26th June, 1996, i.e., three months prior to
 the amending law receiving the Presidential assent. In the circumstances,
 the miscellaneous application filed by the Department was rightly rejected
 by the Tribunal as there was no mistake apparent from the record in the
 order of the Tribunal dated 26th June, 1996. 13. Hence, following the aforesaid legal position, it has to be held that the
 assessment order dated 24.03.1994is invalid as it is based on a notice isuued under
 section 148 dated 20.05.1992, which was invalid on account of the then existing
 law. The subsequent amendment in section 148 may validate the notice, but, it
 would not save the assessment order from being declared null and void, as it was
 passed prior to the amendment. 14. Considering our decision as we have allowed the legal ground and held the
 assessment as null and void as notice u/s 148 of the IT Act is invalid, therefore, the
 discussion on merit of the case has become academic and is not being rendered. 15. In the result, the appeal filed by the assessee is allowed." All the decisions relied upon by the assessee before us have
been discussed in detail in the above decision , therefore, they
are not being discussed. Even the decision of Hon'ble Bombay
High Court in the case of CIT vs. Sudhir S. Mehta (supra) has 17 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. been dealt with by the co-ordinate Bench of the Tribunal in para 12. We, therefore, respectfully following the decision of the co-
ordinate Bench of the Tribunal and also the jurisdictional High
Court as stated hereinabove hold that the notice issued under section 148 of the Act is invalid and accordingly the assessment
framed under section 144 read with section 148 of the Act is
also invalid. Since we have decided the issue in favour of the
assessee on the principal arguments, we are not deciding the
other, without prejudice, submissions made before us during the
course of hearing. Ground No.1 is therefore allowed. 9. The issue raised in ground No.2 is general in nature and
need no separate adjudication. 10. The issue raised in ground No.3 is against the confirmation
of disallowance of loss of Rs.3,19,35,031/- from share market
transactions of Rs.2,55,23,515/-. 11. The facts in brief are that the assessee has claimed loss on
trading of shares which were delivery based at Rs.3,19,35,031/-
which according to the AO was speculative loss from share
trading. The assessee has accounted for in the books of
accounts the sales as well as purchase in respect of all these
shares and has also taken the delivery of these shares.
Therefore, it was claimed as loss from delivery based share
trading. The Ld. CIT(A) rejected the contentions of the assessee
that books of accounts were prepared after a period of 10 years
and are not even audited and therefore books of accounts can
not be considered as completely reliable. The said loss was
rejected on the ground that money market transactions are 18 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. delivery based transactions and hence can not be set off against
the speculative losses from share market transactions. 12. The action of the AO was also affirmed by the Ld. CIT(A)
even in the second round of appeal by observing that assessee
has not furnished the necessary evidences before the AO and the
assessment was framed under section 144 read with section 254 of the Act. 13. The Ld. AR submits before us that money market
transactions are delivery based transactions and hence can not
be set off against the speculative losses from share market
transactions but can be set off against the loss from share
trading which are delivery based. The Ld. A.R. referred to the
page No.336 of the paper book No.3 which contains the details
of losses from money market transactions aggregating to
Rs.3,65,36,015/-. The Ld. A.R. also refers to the copies of
contract notes in respect of money market transactions, copies
whereof are filed at page No.338 to 355 of the paper book No.3.
The Ld. A.R. submits that all these evidences proved that even
the loss from money market transactions were also of
speculative in nature since the transactions of purchase and
sale of securities were squared off much prior to the date of
delivery as reflected in the contract notes. The Ld. A.R.
submitted that in view of the said facts and circumstances the
loss of Rs.3,19,35,031/- from share market transactions may
kindly be allowed to be set off against the income from money
market transactions by assuming that the loss from share
market transactions are speculative in nature. The Ld. A.R. 19 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. submits that the issue is squarely covered in favour of the
assessee by the decision of the co-ordinate Bench of the
Tribunal in assessee's own case in ITA No.1785/M/2015 order
dated 28.02.2017 wherein it has been held that profit from
money market transactions was eligible to be set off against the
losses from share market transactions. The Ld. A.R. therefore
prayed that the issue may kindly be decided in favour of the
assessee following the said decision of the co-ordinate Bench of
the Tribunal. 14. The Ld. D.R., on the other hand, relies on the order of
authorities below by submitting that assessee has not submitted
necessary details and records before the authorities below and
therefore the disallowance was rightly made by the AO and
upheld by Ld. CIT(A). 15. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the
material on record including the decision of the co-ordinate
Bench of the Tribunal in assessee's own case in ITA
No.1785/M/2015 A.Y. 1990-91 and find that the facts of the
present ground is squarely covered in favour of the assessee by the said decision . The operative part is reproduced as under: 5.6 Thus, the Special Court has held that forward transactions in
 Government securities are not illegal. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. 5.7 The case of the assessee has to be considered in the light of the above
 judgment of the Special Court. The claim of loss made by the assessee was
 rejected by the Assessing Authority on the ground that the transactions
 entered into by the assessee were illegal, and therefore, expenses 'or losses
 relating to illegal business cannot be allowed as deductions. The assessee
 was in fact dealing in forward transactions of Government securities. The
 transactions were entered through brokers. The assessee enters into
 agreement for forward delivery of Government securities with one set of
 parties through the broker. Immediately, the assessee also enters into
 forward purchase of Government securities from other set parties through
 the broker. Delivery of the instruments is never taken place. The
 transactions are finally settled off by paying the differential amount. The
 transactions are speculative transactions. The assessee has also shown
 income out of same-set of transactions, which is more than the loss
 declared by the assessee. The Assessing officer has assessed the profit as income. But he declined to
 allow the loss as deduction on the ground of illegality. 5.8. In the light of the judgment of the Special Court, as mentioned above, it
 is to be held that the forward transactions entered into by the assessee
 were not illegal. Therefore, the loss cannot be disallowed on that ground." 3.8. Thus, from the above order it is clear that special court has held that the
forward transactions in Government securities were not illegal. It was further held
that these transactions were speculative transactions. As far as reliance placed by
Ld. special counsel upon the judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of
M/s. Appollo Tyres Ltd. (supra) is concerned, it is noted that the said judgment merely analysed the scope of section 73 wherein expression used by the legislature
was 'shares'. On the other hand, the expression used in section 43(5) is not only
'shares' but 'securities' as well'. This distinction has been very well analysed by the
Delhi Bench of the Tribunal in the case of ANZ Grindlays Bank v. DCIT (supra)
wherein it has been held after considering aforesaid judgment of Hon'ble Supreme
Court in the case of Appollo Tyres Ltd. (supra) that transactions of sale and
purchase of units and government securities by the assessee through a broker
without exchange of actual delivery would fall within the scope of speculative
transactions as defined in section 43(5). Therefore, loss/profit from shares market
transactions can very well be set off/adjusted against loss/profit of money market
transactions. This issue has already been decided in favour of the assessee by the
Tribunal in the case of group company of the assessee namely M/s. Growmore
Leasing Investment (supra) as discussed above also. No distinction has been
pointed out on facts or legal position by the Ld. Special Counsel of the Revenue,
therefore respectfully following the order of the Tribunal in the case of M/s.
Growmore Leasing Investment (supra) as well as ANZ Grindlays Bank v. DCIT
(supra), we find that the claim of the assessee is allowable. Therefore disallowance
made by the AO is directed to be deleted. Thus, ground no.2 is allowed." M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. 16. Following the above decision of the coordinate bench, we
hold that the loss of Rs.3,19,35,031/- from share market
transactions is eligible to be set off against the income from
money market transactions. Accordingly, we set aside the order
of Ld. CIT(A) and direct the AO to allow the said loss from share
trading against the income from money market transactions.
Ground No.3 is allowed. 17. The issue raised in ground No.4 is against the order of Ld.
CIT(A) confirming the disallowance of loss resulting from trading
in UTI unit 64 amounting to Rs.1,10,12,500/-. 18. The facts in brief are that the AO observed from the records
before him that assessee has claimed the said loss resulting
from trade in unit 64 in the year under consideration whereas
the delivery of these units was affected on 02.05.1991 which
was after the year end and accordingly the AO disallowed the
loss on the ground that the said loss related to the subsequent
year. 19. The aggrieved assessee filed an appeal before the Ld.
CIT(A). However, the same was dismissed by holding that the
said loss pertains to the subsequent year. 20. The Ld. A.R. submits before us that the main ground for
rejecting the loss from trading in securities units of US 64 by
the AO was on the ground that as per the contract notes
submitted by the assessee, the delivery of units was effected in
the next financial year and hence the loss pertains to the
subsequent year. The Ld. A.R. submits that the issue is 23 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. squarely covered in favour of the assessee in assessee's own
case in ITA No.924/M/2000 A.Y. 1990-91 & ors vide order dated
30.12.2007 wherein it has been held that loss from securities of
the units of US 64 can not be said to be pertaining to the
subsequent year merely on the basis of date of delivery when the
transactions of purchase and sales were squared off within a
financial year. The Ld. A.R., therefore, prayed that the ground
may kindly be decided in favour of the assessee. 21. The Ld. D.R., on the other hand, relied on the order of
authorities below and the ground of appeal. 22. Having perused the decision of the co-ordinate Bench of
the Tribunal in ITA No.924/M/2000 A.Y. 1990-91 (supra), we
observe that an identical issue arose in the above appeal in
assessee's own case and the co-ordinate Bench of the Tribunal
has decided the issue in favour of the assessee by observing and
holding as under: 23. Since the facts before us are identical to ones as involved in
the ground as decided by the co-ordinate Bench of the Tribunal,
we are, therefore, inclined to set aside the order of Ld. CIT(A)
and direct the AO to allow the loss in the current year.
Consequently ground No.4 is allowed. 24. The issue raised in ground No.5 is against the part
confirmation of addition by Ld. CIT(A) to the extent of
Rs.64.60,000/- as against the addition of Rs.2,67,83,373/- M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. made by the AO on account of profit form money market
transactions. 25. The facts in brief are that the AO during the course of
assessment proceedings observed on the basis of incriminating
material seized during the course of search that assessee has
earned a profit of Rs.6,33,98,388/- on the money market
transactions whereas in the regular books of accounts which
were subsequently submitted the profit from money market
transactions shown was only Rs.3,65,36,015/- and thus there is
a difference of Rs.2,67,83,373/- which was accordingly added to
the income of the assessee. The assessee has challenged the
part confirmation of addition to the extent of Rs.64,60,000/-
whereas the Revenue has challenged the order of Ld. CIT(A)
deleting the addition to the extent of Rs.2,03,23,373/-. 26. In the appellate proceedings, in the first round of litigation,
the assessee submitted that the amount of Rs.6,33,19,388/-
also included Rs.2,03,23,373/- as opening balance and
therefore the addition should be restricted to Rs.64,60,000/-.
The Ld. CIT(A) accepted the plea of the assessee and deleted the
addition to the extent of Rs.2,03,23,373/-. In the second round
of litigation before the Ld. CIT(A), the Ld. CIT(A) partly allowed
the appeal of the assessee by following the decision of his
predecessor by holding and observing as under: 27. The Ld. A.R. submits before us that the addition was
rightly deleted by the Ld. CIT(A) to the tune of Rs.2,03,23,373/-
as same represented the opening balance in the ledger account
of the assessee in the books of accounts of M/s. Harshad S.
Mehta. The Ld. A.R. submits that since the amount represented
the opening balance same can not be added in the current year.
The second plea of the assessee was that in the first round of
appeal, the Ld. CIT(A) allowed the appeal of the assessee to this
extent vide order dated 24.02.2000. The Ld. A.R. further
submits that both the parties i.e. Revenue as well as assessee
challenged the order of Ld. CIT(A) before the Tribunal disputing
the various confirmations and deletion of additions, however, the
deletion of Rs.2,03,23,373/- was not contested by the Revenue
before the Tribunal. The Ld. A.R. also refers to the order of the
co-ordinate bench of the Tribunal to corroborate his averments,
a copy of which is filed at page No.603 to 624. The Ld. A.R.
therefore, submits that the AO should not have made the
addition again as the same was not challenged by the Revenue
before the Tribunal and thus issue was not set aside for re-
adjudication and the said relief had already attained finality in
favour of the assessee. 28. As regards the part sustaining of addition to the extent of
Rs.64,60,000/- by the Ld. CIT(A) in the second round as well,
the Ld. A.R. argues that the Ld. CIT(A) has failed to appreciate
that the said amount pertains to the immediate preceding 27 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. previous year and the assessee has already furnished evidences
to this effect before the authorities below. The Ld. A.R. submits
that the assessee was following mercantile system of accounting
whereas the brokerage firm M/s. Harshad S. Mehta was
following cash system of accounting. Therefore, some
transactions in the money market which were carried out during
the assessment year 1990-91 were recorded in assessment year
1990-91 in accordance with the system of accounting whereas
the same were recorded by the brokerage firm M/s. Harshad S.
Mehta in the next assessment year 1991-92. The Ld. A.R.
submits that this was prime reason for difference found in the
accounts of the assessee in the books of M/s. Harshad S. Mehta.
The Ld. A.R., in order to substantiate his averment also refers to
the evidences filed at page No.1536 of paper book No.7 which is
a breakup of profit from money market transactions earned in
the assessment year 1990-91 by the assessee and also the
relevant contract notes supporting these transactions which
were filed at page No.1537 to 1458 of paper book No.7. Besides,
a reference was also made to trading account in the books of
assessee for assessment year 1990-91 showing the details of
transactions aggregating to Rs.64,60,000/-, details whereof are
filed at page No.1581 to 1585 of paper book No.7. The Ld. A.R.,
therefore, prayed that in view of these facts and evidences, the
addition as sustained by the Ld. CIT(A) to the tune of
Rs.64,60,000/- deserved to be deleted as these transactions
were carried out in assessment year 1990-91 and were
accordingly accounted for. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. 29. The Ld. D.R., on the other hand, relies on the order of
authorities below and submits that the assessee has not
submitted the books of accounts in the first round of litigation
and therefore, all these books of accounts could not be
examined and so the evidences. The DR prays for the
confirmation of the addition by dismissing the ground raised by
the assessee. 30. We have heard the rival submissions of both the parties
and perused the material on record. We find that in this case the
addition has been deleted in the first round of litigation by the
Ld. CIT(A) and the Revenue has not challenged the said addition
before the Tribunal. In the appellate proceedings before the
tribunal, which culminated in setting aside the appeal to the file
of the AO. Therefore, we find merit in the contentions of the
assessee that the said addition could not have been made as
the same had attained finality in the first round of litigation.
Besides, the said balance is in fact an opening balance in the
account of assessee as found in the books of accounts of M/s.
Harshad S. Mehta and therefore , it can not be taxed during the
current year. Therefore, we uphold the order of Ld. CIT(A) on
the issue of deletion of addition of Rs.2,03,23,373/-. We have
also examined the breakup of the money market transactions for
assessment year 1990-91, contract notes and copy of trading
account and note that Rs.64,60,000/- was related to the
assessment year 1990-91 and was accordingly accounted for in
that year. Therefore, we are not in agreement with the
conclusion drawn by Ld. CIT(A) on this issue and accordingly set
aside the order of Ld. CIT(A) and direct the AO to delete the 29 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. addition of Rs.64,60,000/-. The ground no. raised by the
revenue is dismissed whereas the ground no 5 raised by the
assessee is allowed. 31. The issue raised in ground No.6 in the assessee's appeal is
against the confirmation of disallowance of Rs.4,63,608/- by Ld.
CIT(A) as made by the AO on account of short term capital loss
under section 94(4) of the Act. 32. The facts in brief are that the short term capital loss was
disallowed by the AO on the ground that securities were
purchased prior to the record date and after receiving the tax
free interest of the assessee, the same were sold at a loss of
Rs.4,63,608/-. The AO invoked provisions of section 94(4) of the
Act and loss of Rs.4,63,608/- to the extent of exempt income
was not allowed as deduction. 33. The Ld. CIT(A) dismissed the ground raised by the assessee
challenging this issue after taking into account the submissions
of the assessee by observing and holing as under: M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. 34. After hearing rival parties and perusing the material on
record, we find that the said transactions were carried out in
respect of the investments which have resulted in short term
capital loss. Therefore, these transactions are not carried out
under the head "Business Income". Thus we find merit in the
contentions of the assessee that provisions of section 94(4) of
the Act are applicable where the sales and purchase
transactions are carried out as business transactions. Besides,
we note that the issue is squarely covered by the decision of the
co-ordinate bench of the Tribunal in the case of a related entity
of the assessee in M/s. Growmore Leasing and Investment Ltd.
vs. DCIT in ITA No.2192/M/2015 A.Y. 1992-93 & ors. vide order
dated 17.11.2017 wherein it has been held that disallowance
can not be made unless the effect of provisions of section 94(1)
is given in the hands of M/s. Harshad S. Mehta who transferred
the security. The operative part of the decision is reproduced as
under: (1) Where the owner of any securities (in this sub- section and in subsection
 (2) referred to as" the owner") sells or transfers those securities, and buys
 back or reacquires the securities, then, if the result of the transaction is that
 any interest becoming payable in respect of the securities is receivable
 otherwise than by the owner, the interest payable as aforesaid shall,
 whether it would or would not have been chargeable to income- tax apart 31 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. from the provisions of this sub- section, be deemed, for all the purposes of
 this Act, to be the income of the owner and not to be the income of any
 other person. Explanation.- The references in this subsection to buying back or reacquiring
 the securities shall be deemed to include references to buying or acquiring
 similar securities, so however, that where similar securities are bought or
 acquired, the owner shall be under no greater liability to income- tax than
 he would have been under if the original securities had been bought back or
 reacquired. (2) ----------------------------------- (3) ----------------------------------- (4) Where any person carrying on a business which consists wholly or partly
 in dealing in securities, buys or acquires any securities and sells back or
 retransfers the securities, then, if the result of the transaction is that
 interest becoming payable in respect of the securities is receivable by him
 but is not deemed to be his income by reason of the provisions contained in
 sub- section (1), no account shall be taken of the transaction in computing
 for any of the purposes of this Act the profits arising from or loss sustained
 in the business. (5)------------------------------------------- 7. From the above provision, it is clear that where the honour of any securities sales
or transfers those securities and buys back or reacquire the securities, then, if the
result of the transaction is that any interest becoming payable in respect of
securities is receivable otherwise then by the owner, the interest payable thereof
shall be deemed to be the income of the owner for the purposes of chargeable to
income tax under this Act. It means that, in the present case before us, the IRFC
bonds was owned by Harshad S Mehta and assessee purchase the same for a total
consideration of Rs.50,31,95,205/- on 26-09-1991 and sells the same back to
Harshad S Mehta within a short period of 15 days on 11-10-1991 for a total
consideration of Rs. 47,87,32,877/-. In this process the assessee claimed loss of Rs.
2,44,62,328/- and also received tax free interest from these IRFC bonds at Rs.
1,84,50,000/-. By virtue of sub section (1) of section 94 of the Act, this interest will
be income of Harshad S Mehta and not of the assessee. Similarly, in respect to loss
sustained on account of this transaction has been clarified by sub section of section
94 of the Act, which states that any person carrying on a business consists wholly or
partly in dealing in securities, buys or acquires any securities and sell back or re-
transfer the securities then, if the result of the transaction is that, interest become
payable in respect of securities is receivable by him but is not deemed to be his
income in view of the provisions of sub section (1). Further, no account shall be
taken of the transaction in computing for any of the purposes of this act, the profit
arises from or loss sustained in the business. 7. We are of the view that the provisions of section 94(4) can be invoked only in
case the provision of section 94(1) was applicable to the counter party. The loss on
sale of securities can be disallowed only if the assessee in the course of business, 32 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. bought and sold any securities and as a result of the transaction, interest was
 receivable by him which was not deemed to be his income by reason of Sec. 94(1) of the Act. The provisions of Sec. 94(4) would come into operation only if:- 35. Since facts of the present issue before us are materially
same, we, therefore, respectfully following the decision of the co-
ordinate bench of the Tribunal set aside the order of Ld. CIT(A)
and direct the AO to allow the set off of loss of Rs.4,63,608/- to 33 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. the assessee as suffered by it from 9% of NHTC bonds against
the profit on sale of shares. The ground no. 6 is allowed. 36. The issue raised in ground No.7 is against the confirmation
of disallowance of short term capital loss of Rs.6,20,544/- by Ld.
CIT(A) as disallowed by the AO by treating the same as loss
resulting from speculative transactions. 37. The facts in brief are that the assessee has claimed short
term capital loss of Rs.6,20,544/- under head, "Investment in
shares and debentures". The AO rejected the claim of the
assessee on the ground that the purchase and sale recorded in
the books of accounts are not fully supported by the contract
notes/proofs of delivery of shares and therefore rejected the
claim of the assessee by holding that the said loss debited to
short term capital loss account is not allowable as being
speculative loss. 38. The Ld. CIT(A) also dismissed the appeal of the assessee by
holding that the assessee has not provided the requisite details
to substantiate its claim and thus upheld the order of the AO on
this ground. The Ld. CIT(A) also dismissed the appeal of the
assessee on the plea of the assessee that no sufficient
opportunity was provided to the assessee by holding that since
the assessment was framed under section 144 read with section
254 of the Act as the assessee was not co-operative during the
assessment proceedings and therefore this plea was also
dismissed. The Ld. CIT(A) further held that assessee was
provided sufficient opportunities in the appellate proceedings 34 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. and therefore this ground raised by the assessee fails on this
count also. 39. We have heard the rival submissions of both the parties
and perused the material on record. We find that the assessee
has debited the short term capital loss of Rs.6,20,544/- which
according to the assessee has resulted from delivery based
shares and duly supported by the contract notes. We have
examined the paper book of the assessee and also submissions
made before the lower authorities and found that the assessee
has furnished contract notes recording these transactions and
therefore found merit in the contentions of the assessee that
both the authorities below have failed to appreciate these
evidences. Accordingly, we set aside the order of Ld. CIT(A) and
direct the AO to allow the claim of short term capital loss of
Rs.6,20,544/- to the assessee. Ground no 7 is allowed. 40. The issue raised in ground No.8 is against the confirmation
of disallowance by Ld. CIT(A) in respect of various expenses
which have been made by the AO in the assessment
proceedings. 41. The facts in brief are that the assessee has claimed
expenses under the heads "Travelling, telephone, meeting ,
conference and refreshment expenses etc." According to the AO
these expenses were not verifiable and AO made an adhoc
disallowance of Rs.1,63,366/- in respect of travelling expenses
being 25%, Rs.1,48,016/- in respect of telephone expenses being
10%, Rs.1,41,774/- in respect of meeting and conference
expenses being 25% and Rs.2,48,720/- on account of 35 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. refreshment expenses, miscellaneous and sundry expenses
being 50% on adhoc basis. 42. In the appellate proceedings, the Ld. CIT(A) dismissed the
appeal of the assessee by holding the disallowance is fair and
reasonable in view of the facts and circumstances of the case. 43. We find that the various expenses have been disallowed on
adhoc basis by the AO which have been affirmed by the Ld.
CIT(A) on the ground that the expenses under these head were
not fully verifiable. On the other hand, the assessee's counsel
submitted that these are quite legitimate expenses and the same
could be not disallowed on the ground that same were not fully
verifiable. After considering the facts on record and the
submissions of the rival parties, we are of the considered view
that the disallowance made by the AO is quite on the higher side
that too on adhoc basis without pointing out any specific defect
and confirmed by ld CIT(A). We note that in the case of M/s.
Growmore Leasing Investment vs. ACIT ITA No.2192/M/2015
for A.Y. 1992-93 which is a related entity an identical issue was
decided by the co-ordinate bench of the Tribunal vide order
dated 17.11.2017 wherein the disallowance has been restricted
to 15% of the amount claimed. After examining the facts on
record, we observe that in case of telephone expenses the
disallowance made is only 10%. Therefore the disallowance is
sustained in respect of telephone expenses whereas in respect of
travelling, meeting and conference expenses, the disallowance is
restricted to 15% of the expenses. Accordingly, we set aside the
order of Ld. CIT(A) on this issue and direct the AO to restrict the 36 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. disallowance to 15% of the expenses claimed in respect of
travelling, meeting and conference expenses while disallowance
of telephone expenses is sustained. Ground no. 8 is partly
allowed. 44. The issue raised in 9th ground is against the confirmation
of disallowance by Ld. CIT(A) as made by the AO under section
14A of the Act amounting to Rs.19,82,350/-. 45. The facts in brief are that assessee has earned exempt
income by way of dividend of Rs.26,42,265/- which constitutes
19.83% of the total receipts. The AO observed that assessee has
not disallowed any proportionate expenses for earning of this
income and accordingly after issuing a show cause notice
disallowed a sum of Rs.19,82,350/- as relating to earning of
exempt income. The Ld. CIT(A) also affirmed this addition by
upholding the order of AO. 46. At the outset, the Ld. Counsel of the assessee pointed out
that the issue is squarely covered by the decision of the co-
ordinate bench of the Tribunal in the case of a related entity i.e.
M/s. Growmore Leasing Investment vs. ACIT ITA
No.2192/M/2015 for A.Y. 1992-93 wherein the Tribunal vide
order dated 17.11.2017 has held that disallowance be restricted
to 1% of the exempt income earned by the assessee. The Ld.
A.R. submitted that the disallowance may be restricted to 1% by
following the said order of the co-ordinate bench of the Tribunal. 47. The Ld. D.R., on the other hand, relied on the grounds of
appeal and order of authorities below. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. 48. After hearing both the parties and perusing the material on
record including the decision of the co-ordinate bench of the
Tribunal as cited supra, we observe that the similar issue has
been decided in favour of the assessee by the co-ordinate bench
of the Tribunal in the case of related concern M/s. Growmore
Leasing Investment vs. ACIT (Supra) directing the AO to disallow
1% of the exempt income under section 14A of the Act. We,
therefore, respectfully following the decision of the co-ordinate
bench of the Tribunal, set aside the order of Ld. CIT(A) and
direct the AO to restrict the disallowance to 1% of the exempt
income of Rs.26,42,265/-. The ground is partly allowed. 49. The issue raised in 10th ground of appeal is against the
confirmation of Rs.2,26,94,084/- as made by the AO towards
unexplained investment in shares under section 69 of the Act on
the basis of seized material from Madras office of the assessee. 50. The facts in brief are that the AO, on the basis of
examination of seized material from the Madras office of the
assessee, observed that assessee has made investments in
shares of Rs.2,26,94,084/-. The AO added the same to the
income of the assessee under section 69 of the Act as
unexplained investments on the ground that assessee could not
explain the source of these investments. 51. In the set aside proceedings also, the Ld. CIT(A) dismissed
the appeal of the assessee on this ground after taking into
account the submissions and contentions of the assessee by
observing and holding as under: 52. The Ld. A.R. vehemently submitted before us that the Ld.
CIT(A) has upheld the order of AO on the ground that the
assessee has furnished the evidences in the form of
confirmations from the family members which are self serving
documents. The Ld. A.R. submitted that both the authorities
below have failed to understand the spirit of the provisions as
envisaged under section 69 of the Act. The Ld. A.R. submitted
that the provisions of section 69 of the Act can only be invoked
where the assessee has made investments which are not
recorded in the books of accounts maintained by him and the
assessee also not able to offer any explanation or the
explanation offered by the assessee is not satisfactory in the
opinion of the AO, then the same could be treated as income
under section 69 of the Act. The Ld. A.R. prayed that section 69
is a deeming provision and was introduced by the legislature
primarily with a view to bring to tax the investments made in
cash by the assessee and as such these provisions are not
applicable to the assessee at all as the ingredients of section 69
are not satisfied. In defence of his argument the assessee relied
on the following decisions: 53. The Ld. A.R. also submits that AO is duty bound to prove
that documents/information relied upon by him in which
unrecorded investments were mentioned. Then the AO has to
satisfy himself that these investments made by the assessee
during the year are not recorded in the books of accounts. The
Ld. A.R. submitted that since the AO has not made any enquiry
and has not examined the seized material in its entirety which, if
properly examined, would have proved otherwise than what has
been presumed by the AO. The Ld. A.R. submitted that the
theory of presumption and conjuncture can not be applied while
invoking the provisions of section 69 of the Act. The AO has also
failed to apply his mind and take into consideration the crucial
fact that the business of stock broking and making investments
in stock exchange is not only highly regulated but all the
transactions take place through regular banking channels and
clearing house and in the very scheme of things it is not possible
to make any investments in shares and securities in cash or
outside the books of accounts. The AO therefore has abused the
discretionary powers available to him under S.69 of the IT Act to
make large additions and a high-pitched assessment against the
appellant. The AO also ought to have appreciated that the
appellant was a notified entity under S.3(2) of the Torts Act and
therefore the issue of ownership or existence of any investments
particularly between the appellant and its associate entities was
liable to be adjudicated upon and decided only by Hon'ble 41 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. Special Court in view of exclusive Civil jurisdiction conferred
upon Hon'ble Special Court under S.9-A of the Torts Act and in
view of the overriding nature of the provisions of the Torts Act due to S.13 of the said Act. The AO had no powers to hold that
the investment was made by the appellant, a notified entity after
the appellant tendered explanation that the subject shares
belonged to the other notified entities associated with it as the
same was violated of Sections 9A and 13 of the Torts Act. In the
least the AO had the responsibility to act in tandem in a manner
to help achieve the objects of the Torts Act . 54. The ld AR submits that ,in the present case, the seized
material based on which the addition is made does not even
remotely suggest that these are the investments made by the
assessee itself and during the relevant year from any source not
recorded in the books of account. The ld AR refers to the copy of
the seized page (alongwith legible typed copy) as enclosed at
Page 363-364 of PB No. 3. The ld AR submits that the said page
clearly establishes that the appellant has made any investment
during the relevant year and in the seized material also there is
no reference to the assessee being the owner of the investments
recorded on the said page. The seized material was not the
record of investments made by the assessee. In fact, the addition
was made by the AO by making multiple presumptions which
are contrary to the seized material and such presumptions
cannot be made for making addition u/s 69 of the l. T. Act . In
fact, the page very clearly points out that these are the shares
held for HSM. Further, during the course of the proceedings
before the Assessing Officer, it was clarified and established that 42 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. these are the shares purchased by HSM, as a broker for and on
behalf of its clients being various entities, in most cases being
the family members for shares purchased through Madras stock
exchange. Since HSM was operating from Bombay, the shares
purchased at Madras stock exchange were kept with the
assessee at its office under an understanding of the assessee
acting as a Custodian to hold shares on behalf of others who are
associated with the assessee. In terms of the arrangement
between the assessee and the associate entities of the assessee,
the appellant was undertaking the task of registration of shares
and rendering other related services and was also required to
keep the custody of stocks for and on behalf of 3 brokerage firms
of M/s. Harshad S. Mehta, M/s. Ashwin Mehta and M/s. J.H.
Mehta as also on behalf of the family members and corporate
entities who were clients of the said 3 brokerage firms. 55. The ld AR further stresses that the notwithstanding the
foregoing, though the explanation given by the assessee was
rejected in the assessment proceedings leading to original
assessment dated 30.03.1994 but the same was accepted by
FAA who granted relief to the assessee through his order dated
24.02.2000 when he deleted addition made u/a 69 of
Ra.35,62,82,900/- as per findings given in Paras 78 and 79 of
his order. The AO has thereafter not made the above addition
when he passed the fresh assessment order in assessee's case
only because the explanation of the appellant was already
accepted by FAA. The explanation of the assessee was the same
even in respect of the aforesaid addition but the FAA did not
accept the said explanation in regard to the subject addition. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. The view taken by FAA for the subject addition was completely
contrary to the view taken by him for much larger addition as
aforementioned of Rs.35,52,82,900/-. That in any case in the
original assessment order dated 30.03.1994, the AO had made
the addition, inter alia, on the ground that the assesses had not
furnished the details to whom the subject shares belonged.
However, at the time of framing of fresh assessment, complete
particulars together with evidences were already available on the
record of the AO but the same was not taken into consideration
at all and even on that ground the appellant is entitled to the
relief. In support of the said contentions that the shares do not
belong to the appellant, the following evidences and information
were filed in the course of assessment proceedings: does not represent the investments made by the appellant. In
fact, on an identical basis and as explained earlier, the addition
was made in the original assessment order passed u/s. 147
r.w.s. 144 of the Act dated 30.03.1994 [Page 40-62 of PB No. 1]
for an amount of Rs. 35,52,82,900/-based on seized page
reflecting the notings of various transactions of similar
nature[Page 206-208 of PB No. 3]. The said addition was deleted
after making detailed discussion by the Ld. CIT(A) in the 1st
round of appeal vide his order dated 24.02.2000 [Page 229-325
of PB No. 3] at Paras 78-79. 57. The Ld. D.R., on the other hand, strongly objected to the
arguments of the Ld. A.R. and submitted that the addition of
Rs.2,26,94,084/- was based upon the incriminating material
seized during search operation. The Ld. D.R. submitted that the
additional evidences submitted by the assessee before the first
appellate authority in the first round of litigation were in the
form of confirmation letters from M/s. H.S.M, M/s. A.S.M. and
M/s. J.H.M. which were self serving documents as all these
three brokerage entities are part of the same group and therefore
there is no merit in the contentions of the Ld. A.R. The Ld. D.R.
submitted that the provisions of section 69 have rightly been
invoked by the AO as the assessee was found to have made
investments in shares and securities as revealed by the material
seized during the course of search in Madras office. The Ld.
D.R., therefore, prayed that the grounds raised by the assessee
may kindly be dismissed. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. 58. We have heard the rival submissions of both the parties
and perused the material on record. The undisputed facts are
that during the course of search certain incriminating material
were found from the office of the assessee in Madras which
contained some entries qua the purchase of shares. We note
that the assessee has filed the additional evidences before the
first appellate authority in the form of confirmation letters from
M/s. H.S.M, M/s. A.S.M. and M/s. J.H.M. which according to
the Ld. CIT(A) in the first round were self serving documents and
thus the appeal was dismissed. In the second round also the
AO made the same addition and the Ld. CIT(A) affirmed them on
the same basis. We have examined the seized material which
are filed at page No.363 and 364 of paper book No.3 and found
that seized material does not indicate the fact of the securities
being owned by the assessee or belonging to the assessee. We
find that the assessee has explained that these investments and
shares were the purchases made by Harshad S. Mehta as a
broker for and on behalf of his clients being various entities
including his family members. We note that the assessee has
also submitted that M/s. H.S.M. was operating from Bombay
and therefore the shares purchased from Madras stock
Exchange were kept with the assessee at its office who were
holding the shares on behalf of others also who were associated
with the assessee. It was also submitted that the assessee was
rendering various services like registration of shares and other
services and also used to keep the custody of shares for and on
behalf of three brokers from M/s. H.S.M, M/s. A.S.M. and M/s.
J.H.M. and also on behalf of family members and corporate
entities who were clients of the said three brokerage firms. We 46 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. note that all these entities have given confirmations to the effect
 that shares were not belonging to the assessee but to these
 brokerage firms. We have also examined the explanation given
 by the assessee before the AO, a copy of which is filed at page
 No.365 giving explanation of the purchases along with evidences
 in the form of contract notes giving various details which are
 extracted below for ready reference : Enclosed here with
 the contract notes
 evidencing
 purchases
5 FULLER 8900 8900 1452045.00 List enclosed. Enclosed here with
 KCP the contract notes
 evidencing
 purchases
6 GRASIM 2200 2200 484600.00 DAM 11/03/91 200 Enclosed here with
 IND PHM 20/03/91 500 the contract notes
 PHM 22/03/91 1500 evidencing
 purchases
7 HARRISON 700 700 142400.00 HSM 22/03/91 700 Enclosed here with
 MALAYALA the contract notes
 M evidencing
 purchases
8 HIND. 200 200 35300.00 PHM 22/03/91 200 Enclosed here with
 LEVER the contract notes
 evidencing
 purchases
9 INDIA 44750 44750 5079575.00 List enclosed. Enclosed here with
 CEMENTS the contract notes
 LTD. evidencing
 purchases
10 ITC LTD 200 200 26650.00 SSM 19/03/91 200 Enclosed here with
 the contract notes
 evidencing
 purchases
11 KCP LTD 104100 104100 8346160.00 List enclosed. It is clear from the above statement that assessee has given
the name of the buyer, date of purchase and quantity of shares
purchased. The assessee has also filed before the AO the
confirmations as stated hereinabove from M/s. H.S.M, M/s.
A.S.M. and M/s. J.H.M., copies whereof are filed at page No.367
to 380 in which it has been confirmed that shares were not
belonging to the assessee. It is apparent from the perusal of
para 2, 5 & 6 of these confirmations that these shares were not
belonging to assessee but belonging to the other
entities/individual in the same group. We have also examined
the confirmations issued by the employees of these brokers
which are filed along with their affidavits at page no.381 to 388.
Thus we note that the investments reflected in the seized
material were explained by the assessee to be belonging to the
third parties and these third parties have confirmed the same
before the AO. In view of these facts and circumstances , we are
quite convinced that investments in these seized material were
pertaining to portfolio valuation of certain shares purchased by
M/s. Harshad S. Mehta on behalf of its clients and in no way
represented the investment made by the assessee. We also note
that an addition of Rs.35,52,82,900/- was made on the basis of
seized pages reflecting the similar nature transactions which are
filed at page No.206 to 208 in the paper book No.3 in the
original assessment framed under section 147 read with section
144 of the Act dated 30.03.1994 and the said addition was
deleted by Ld. CIT(A) in the first round of appeal vide his order
dated 24.02.2000 filed at page No.229 to 325 of paper book No.3
vide para 78 & 79 and it is note worthy to mention here that AO
has not made any such addition in the set aside proceedings. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. Thus we find merit in the arguments of the Ld. A.R. of the
assessee that these investments do not belong to the assessee
and thus addition under section 69 of the Act has wrongly been
made and can not be sustained. In view of these facts and
circumstances we are inclined to set aside the order of Ld. CIT(A)
and direct the AO to delete the addition. Ground no 10 is
allowed. 59. The issue raised in ground No.11 is against the order of Ld.
CIT(A) upholding the addition of Rs.29,23,350/- as made by the
AO on account of explained investment and shares pending
deliveries under section 69 of the Act. 60. The facts in brief are that the AO on the basis of
documents seized from the office of the assessee at Madras
observed that assessee has made some purchases to the tune of
Rs.58,46,090/- qua which the delivery of shares were yet to be
made. According to the AO, since the assessee could not explain
the source of this investments and the same were added under section 69 of the Act to the income of the assessee. 61. In the appellate proceedings in the first round the Ld.
CIT(A) allowed the appeal of the assessee partly thereby
sustaining the addition to the extent of Rs.29,23,350/-. In the
second round of appeal, the Ld. CIT(A) confirmed the same
addition by observing and holding as under: 62. The Ld. A.R. submits that the said addition is not justified
for several reasons namely: 1616 of PB No. 7]. 63. The Ld. D.R., on the other hand, relied on the order of
authorities below. 64. The issue raised in this ground is similar to one as decided
by us in ground No.10. We find that the assessee has filed
before the authorities below the chart showing details of
securities purchased by the broker entities for and on behalf of
their family members, contract notes on sample basis, ledger
accounts of the counter brokers in the books of M/s. Harshad S.
Mehta reflecting these investments carried out by M/s. Harshad
S. Mehta, contract notes issued by counter brokers whose
names are reflected in the seized pages issued in the name of
M/s. Harshad S. Mehta confirming the transactions made at the
Madras Stock Exchange. We also note that these evidences were
not doubted or disputed by the authorities below and the
conclusion of the Ld. CIT(A) that these are self serving
documents can not be accepted. We further note that these
contract notes were accepted by the predecessor AOs as correct
evidences when the capital gain exemptions have been claimed
by the aforesaid entity. Therefore under these facts and 51 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. circumstances and various evidences placed before us. we are of
the considered view that addition made by the AO and as
sustained by Ld. CIT(A) can not be sustained as the assessee
has explained the notings and entries in the seized material as
not belonging to the assessee but to the other entities.
Accordingly, we are inclined to set aside the order of Ld. CIT(A)
and direct the AO to delete the addition. 65. The issue raised in ground No.12 is against the
confirmation of addition of Rs.42,39,125/- by Ld. CIT(A) as
made by the AO under section 69 as unexplained investment in
respect of shares transacted through share broker M/S
Auromira on the basis of seized material. 66. The facts in brief are that the AO observed on the basis of
seized material that assessee has received delivery of shares of
Rs.42,39,125/- from broker M/s. Auro Mira and added the same
to the income of the assessee as unexplained cash credit under section 69 reasoning that assessee could not explain the source
of investments. 67. The appellate authority dismissed the appeal in the first
round and in the second round too ,the Ld. CIT(A) by following
the order of the predecessor dismissed the appeal of the
assessee by holding and observing as under: 18.2 From, the above it can be observed that after a detailed analysis, the FAA in
 the 1st round of proceedings has made the said enhancement u/s 69 of
 Rs.42,39,125/-. Further, as regards the contention of the assessee that the AO did
 not provide sufficient opportunity by way of a show cause, it is noted that the
 assessment has been completed u/s 144 rws 254 since there was little compliance
 from the assessee. The validity of the said assessment 144 rws 254 has been upheld
 in the preceding paras on the facts of the case and also as per law. Moreover, in
 course of the present appellate proceedings, the assessee has been allowed
 sufficient opportunity and therefore should not have any grievance on this count.
 Therefore, respectfully following the order of my Ld predecessor, the action of the
 AO of making the said addition u/s 69 of Rs 42,39,125/- is confirmed. Accordingly,
 ground No 19 of the appeal is dismissed." 68. The Ld. A.R. submits before the Bench that the addition
was made on the basis of seized documents copy of which is
filed at page No.407 and typed copy on 408of the paper book.
The Ld. A.R. argues that the said document showed that it
contains the position of shares purchased through broker M/s.
Auro Mira as on 28.03.1991. The Ld. A.R. submits that the AO
has made the addition merely on the ground that the said
documents contain the details of share purchase at Madras
office of the assessee by ignoring the fact that the said details 53 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. were easily verifiable from the share broker who was registered
to be of the Madras Stock Exchange. The Ld. A.R. also
emphasized that the said paper does not contain any reference
to the assessee and therefore the AO has misconstrued the
contents thereof that investments reflected in the documents
belong to the assessee. The Ld. A.R. submits that in order to
make addition under section 69 of the Act, the AO has to prove
that these investments belong to the assessee which are not
recorded in the books of accounts of the assessee and therefore
without establishing the primary condition, the AO could not
have made addition under section 69 of the Act. The Ld. A.R.
also submits that the ample evidences were available on record
which prove that the transactions, in the said seized document
were pertaining to other entities, carried out by M/s. Harshad S.
Mehta with counter brokers. The Ld. A.R. also refers to the
details of securities purchased by the broker entities for and on
behalf of their family members, the details whereof are filed at
page No.393 to 395 of paper book no 3. The contract notes
issued by the brokers in the names of various other entities
reflecting with the said securities were transacted on behalf of
them are filed at page No.396 of paper book No.3. In the
contract notes issued by the counter brokers whose name is
appearing on the seized document issued in the name of M/s.
Harshad S. Mehta confirming the transactions undertaken at
Madras Stock Exchange the copies of which are filed at page
No.1597 to 1616 of the paper book No.7. The Ld. A.R. also
refers to the ledger account of the counter brokers in the books
of M/s. Harshad S. Mehta reflecting these transactions carried
out by M/s. Harshad S. Mehta with them, the copies of which 54 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. are filed at page No.397 & 398 of paper book No.3. The Ld. A.R.
submits that as is clear from the various documents, the said
seized document consists of transactions carried out by broker
M/s. Auro Mira on behalf of M/s. Harshad S. Mehta and also
consists of transactions which are also reflected in other seized
documents on which addition to the tune of Rs.58,46,090/- was
made in the assessment order and hence to that extent there is
a double addition made by the AO. The Ld. A.R. submits that
the authorities below have failed to take a note of these
evidences which are available on record and accordingly prayed
before the Bench that addition made deserved to be deleted. 69. The Ld. D.R., on the other hand, relied heavily on the order
of Ld. CIT(A). 70. We have examined the documents as referred to above by
the Ld. A.R. and also perused the impugned order. We find that
these transactions as contained in the seized documents were
carried out by M/s. Auro Mira on behalf of M/s. Harshad S.
Mehta which have been confirmed by both the parties. Besides,
the transactions which are appearing in this seized paper also
appearing in other various seized documents, addition on the
basis of which was made to the tune of Rs.58,46,090/- in the
assessment order. Therefore, the order of Ld. CIT(A) can not be
sustained for two reasons namely (i) that these transactions
were belonging to other parties as evident from the description
in the seized documents itself and (ii) also the confirmations filed
by other broker entities that same were purchased on behalf of
M/s. Harshad S. Mehta. Moreover, since the addition has 55 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. already been made in the assessment order to the tune of
Rs.58,46,090/- on the basis of seized materials which have the
details of same transactions of shares and thus any further
addition on this count would result in double addition which is
not permissible under the Act. Accordingly, we are inclined to
hold that the addition under section 69 of the Act has wrongly
been sustained by Ld. CIT(A). Therefore, we set aside the order
of Ld. CIT(A) and direct the AO to delete the addition. 71. The issue raised in ground No.13 is against the
confirmation of addition of Rs.37,50,000/- by Ld. CIT(A) as
made by the AO on account of unexplained investment in share
transfer stamps on the basis of documents seized from Madras
office. 72. The facts in brief are that the AO observed from the
documents seized from Madras office of the assessee that
assessee has sent share transfer stamps worth Rs.12,50,000/-
to its Bombay office on 10.11.1990 and further share transfer
stamps worth Rs.25,00,000/- were purchased on 11.12.1990 at
Madras office. Accordingly, the AO asked the assessee to
explain the source of said investments of Rs.37,50,000/- in
share transfer stamps. The assessee replied that the said
stamps were purchased at the instruction of Bombay office and
the payment has been made from the bank account of M/s.
Harshad S. Mehta. However, the AO observed that the
payments have been made in cash from the books of accounts of
the assessee itself and accordingly held the submission of the
assessee that payments were made from the bank account of 56 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. M/s. Harshad S. Mehta as misleading, conflicting and fallacious
and added the same to the income of the assessee and added
the same to the income of the assessee as unexplained
investments under section 69 of the Act. In the first round of
litigation the said addition was confirmed by ld. CIT(A) on the
ground that assessee vide letter dated 15.3.1994 filed the AO
claimed that these stamps belongs to the assessee and duly
accounted for in the books. In the set aside proceedings also the
AO added the same amount under section 69 of the Act. 73. In the appellate proceedings , the ld CIT(A) also dismissed
the plea of the assessee by observing that the assessee has come
up with new theory that the amount of share transfer stamps
was Rs. 25,00,000/- and not 37,50,000/- .The ld CIYT(A) also
rejected the plea of the assessee that these stamps worth
Rs.25,00,000/- were purchased at the request of M/S Harshad
S. Mehta and out of this stamps worth Rs. 12,50,000/- were
dispatched to Bombay office and the payment was made by M/S
Harshad S Mehta. Ld. CIT(A) while dismissing the plea of the
assessee observed that stamps worth Rs. 12,50,000 were
dispatched on 10.11.1990 and the same can not be out of
subsequent purchases of Rs. 25,00,000/- on 11.12.1990.The ld
CIT(A) also brushed aside the confirmation from Harshad S
Metha as self serving document and dismissed the appeal by
following the predecessor ld CIT(A) order. 74. The Ld. A.R. submits that once it is admitted that the
Madras office of the assessee was working along with the
Bombay office in keeping safe custody of shares both registered 57 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. and unregistered and was also looking after the task of
registration of shares, then the explanation of purchase of
stamps required for registration was bound to be accepted. The
ld AR submits that the seized material contains reference to
such purchase of stamps by the Madras office for forwarding to
Bombay office in the MIS Reports being forwarded on a regular
basis by the staff of Madras office to Bombay office. The ld AR
submits that the stamps were purchased at Madras for and on
behalf of the brokerage firm of M/s. Harshad S. Mehta since
there was shortage of stamps in Bombay and therefore the
transaction required to be accounted for by the concerned
brokerage firm. The ld AR argues that such an addition cannot
be made u/s 69 of the IT. Act as the purchase of stamps is duly
accounted for in the books of account. 75. The Ld. D.R., on the other hand, relied on the order of
authorities below. 76. We have heard the rival submissions of both the parties
and perused the material on record including the impugned
orders. After taking into account the totality of facts and
arguments of both the sides, we observe that the assessee has
been taking divergent stands so far as the quantum of stamps is
concerned. Initially it was admitted these stamps were purchase
but after wards the assessee claimed that stamps worth Rs.
25,00,000/- were purchased only and not of Rs. 37,50,000/-. It
was also claimed before us that stamps worth Rs. 12,50,000/-
were purchased on behalf of Harshad S Mehta and accordingly
dispatched and also paid by him. The ld. AR also claimed that 58 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. these stamps were duly accounted for in the books of the
assessee and therefore no addition under section 69 of the Act
can be made. However we note that the assessee has been
changing the its stand again and again and it is hard to believe
the different theories of the assessee. Under these
circumstances, we are inclined to dismiss the ground of the
assessee by upholding the order of ld CIT(A). Accordingly the
ground no. 13 is dismissed. 77. The issue raised in ground No.14 is against the
confirmation of Rs.74,09,265/- by Ld. CIT(A) as made by the AO
in respect of unexplained investments in shares under section
69 of the Act based on the report of Shri Arjun K.S Iyer (AKSR). 78. The facts in brief are that the AO, on the basis of report of
Shri Arjun K.S Iyer who was engaged by the assessee to
reconcile the position of the shares purchased by the entire
group, observed that assessee owned shares of Rs.74,09,265/-.
The AO added the same to the income of the assessee on the
ground that assessee has failed to explain the source of
purchase of these shares. In the first round of litigation, the
issue was dismissed by Ld. CIT(A) on the ground that addition
was made based upon the material on record. The AO made the
same addition in the set aside assessment framed. 79. In the second appellate proceedings, the Ld. CIT(A) also
dismissed the ground raised by the assessee by observing and
holding as under: 20.4 The said report of M/s Arjun K S Ayer was seized from the premises of the
 Assessee Group and therefore in respect of the claim of the assessee that the
 figures of share holding of the various entities of its group as per this report are not
 correct, the onus was on the assessee to collect the requisite information from the
 said companies so as to demonstrate the position of actual shareholding of the
 various entities of the Assessee group. However, the assessee has failed to
 substantiate its claim that, the figures of share holding of the various entities of its
 group as per this report are not correct. As regards to the contention of the
 assessee that without prejudice to its contention that no addition should be made,
 if at all any addition is made, the same should have been by adopting the market
 price as on the date of acquisition and not the market price on the last day of the
 year, it is held that the onus was on the assessee to show when the said
 investments were made. However, since the assessee did not provide the necessary
 information about the date of acquisitions the said investments, the AO had no
 option but to reasonably adopt the market price on the last day of the year for
 determining the amount of unexplained investments of the assessee as per the
 report of M/s Arjun K S Ayer. Therefore, respectfully following the order of my Ld
 predecessor, no infirmity is found in the action of the AO of making the said
 addition u/s 69 of Rs 74.09.265/- on the basis of the report of M/s Arjun K S Ayer.
 Accordingly, ground No 21 of the appeal is dismissed." 80. The Ld. A.R., at the outset, submitted that the issue is
squarely covered by the decision of the co-ordinate bench of the
Tribunal in assessee's own case in ITA No.3660/M/1994 & ors.
A.Y. 1990-91 order dated 09.08.1996 a copy of which is filed at 60 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. page No.652 to 675 of paper book No.4 and also other related
entities for A.Y. 1990-91 i.e. immediately preceding previous
year in the case of Ms. Deepika Mehta Vs ACIT in ITA
No.3554/M/1995 for A.Y. 1990-91 and Shri Sudhir Mehta Vs
ACIT ITA No. 3557/M/1994 for A.Y. 1990-91 wherein the AO
was directed to make the addition, if required on the basis of
information collected from the companies as regards the share
holdings of the assessee. The Ld. A.R. submits that the order
passed by the Ld. CIT(A) is wrong and fallacious on the ground
that Ld. CIT(A) has confirmed the addition reasoning that
assessee has failed to prove the investment reflected in the
report of Shri Arjun K.S Iyer whereas as a matter of fact the
holdings did not belong to the assessee but to the other entities
in the group. The Ld. A.R. submits that the said report of Shri
Arjun K.S Iyer could not be considered as piece of evidence to
make the addition without following the direction of the Bench
as stated hereinabove. The Ld. A.R. also submits that despite
the aforesaid decision by the Tribunal both the authorities have
failed to follow the directions and made the addition without
carrying out any further enquiry. The Ld. A.R. also submits that
the tribunal ,in the case of Deepika A. Mehta vs. DCIT in ITA
No.3269/M/2015 A.Y. 1989-90, has , on identical addition
made in that year, categorically held that no inquiries have been
made by the AO in spite of directions given in the earlier round
of appeal and it was further held that the matter was of more
than 25 years old and nothing fruitful will come out of even if
the matter is again restored back to the file of the AO and
accordingly on failure on the part of the department to make
enquiries, addition was deleted by the Tribunal. The Ld. A.R. 61 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. prays that following the said decision of the co-ordinate bench of
the Tribunal, the addition as sustained by the Ld. CIT(A) in
which no inquiries were made by the AO despite the directions
of the Tribunal, may kindly be deleted. The DR on the other
hands relied heavily on the orders of authority below. 81. In this case, we note that in the first round of litigation, the
addition was made on the basis of report of Shri Arjun K.S Iyer
which is also confirmed by Ld. CIT(A) but Tribunal restored the
matter back to the file of the AO with a direction to make the
addition, if required, after conducting inquiries from the
companies about the share holdings of the assessee. However,
we find that no such enquiries were conducted and addition was
made again on the report of Shri Arjun K.S Iyer thereby
disrespecting the direction of the Tribunal. We have also
perused the various decisions as cited by the Ld. A.R. in
assessee's own case in ITA No.3660/M/1994 & ors. A.Y. 1990-
91 (supra), in the cases of related concerns Ms. Deepika A.
Mehta vs. ACIT , Sudhir S. Mehta vs. ACIT for A.Y. 1990-91
( supra) and Deepika A. Mehta vs. DCIT for A.Y. 1989-90(supra).
Upon perusal of these decisions, we observe that under similar
circumstances the Tribunal has directed the deletion of addition
on the ground that the authorities have failed to carry out the
investigations and enquiries from the companies in which the
assessee was alleged to hold shares but in the present case also
the department has not made any enquiries from the companies
to ascertain the shareholding of the assessee. Accordingly, we
are not in a position to allow a third round of litigation that too
after a period of almost 3 decades as no meaningful purpose 62 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. would be served. Accordingly, we are inclined to set aside the
order of Ld. CIT(A) and direct the AO to delete the addition. 82. The issue raised in ground No.15 is against the order of Ld.
CIT(A) confirming the addition of Rs.6,24,76,526/- as made by
the AO on account of unexplained investments in the shares
under section 69 of the Act on the basis of documents seized. 83. The facts in brief are that the AO observed on the basis of
correspondences/letters/obligations exchanged between office of
the assessee at Madras and Bombay which were seized during
the course of search that assessee has invested
Rs.6,24,76,256/- in shares, the source whereof could not be
explained by the assessee and accordingly AO came to
conclusion that assessee owned these shares and accordingly
added as unexplained investment under section 69 to the
income of the assessee. These letters indicated that assessee
has transferred shares from Bombay office to Delhi office during
the year. 84. In the appellate proceedings, the Ld. CIT(A) dismissed the
appeal of the assessee on this issue by observing and holding as
under: 21.3 From, the above it can be observed that after a detailed analysis, the FAA in
the 1st round of proceedings has confirmed the said addition u/s 69 to the extent of
Rs 6,24,76,526/-. It is also noted that the additional evidences submitted by the
assessee before the FAA in the 1 st round of proceedings in the form of contract
notes of the related notified broker entities, affidavit of Deepika Mehta to support
its claim are clearly self-serving, considering that the said notified broker entities
and Deepika Mehta are part of the Assessee Group itself who have been found to
be involved in the said stock market scam of 1992. Further, as regards the
contention of the assessee that the AO did not provide sufficient opportunity by
way of a show cause, it is noted that the assessment has been completed u/s 144 rws 254 since there was little compliance from the assessee. The validity of the said
assessment 144 rws 254 has been upheld in the preceding paras on the facts of the
case and also as per law. Moreover, in course of the present appellate proceedings,
the assessee has been allowed sufficient opportunity and therefore should not
have any grievance on this count. Therefore, respectfully following the order of my
Ld predecessor, the addition made by the AO of Rs 6,24,76,526/- u/s 69 on the
basis of the correspondences exchanged between the offices of the assessee at
Mumbai and Madras, is confirmed. Accordingly, ground No 22 of the appeal is
dismissed." M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. 85. The Ld. A.R. submits that the addition has been made
without complying with the primary condition as required u/s.
69 of the Act to establish that the unaccounted investments
were made by the assessee during the year under appeal. On
this ground itself, the addition deserves to be deleted. That once
the FAA accepted the explanation of the appellant in his order
dated 24.02.2000 that the Madras office of the assessee was
keeping custody of shares on behalf of other entities and also
undertaking the task of registration of unregistered shares, the
said explanation equally explains the forwarding of shares by
Madras office back to Mumbai office after the owners of the
shares sold them in the market. The ld AR submits that the
explanation given by the appellant was comprehensive and duly
corroborated by other independent evidences and by the owners
of the subject shares and therefore such rejection of the
explanation of the appellant was untenable. The ld AR also,
without prejudice, submits that following evidences were filed
before the Assessing Officer rebutting the addition made in the
assessment order namely (i) Chart showing the details of the
investments found listed in various seized letters [Page 422-423
of the PB No. 3] (ii) detailed breakup of the investments made as
per the said letters, details of the broker by whom the
transactions were carried out [Page 409-418 of the PB No. 3] (iii)
relevant contract notes on sample basis supporting the
transactions reflected in the seized documents [Page 424-473 of
the PB No. 3]. Besides above, as explained earlier the CIT(A) in
Paras 78 and 79 of his order dated 24.02.2000 accepted the
contentions of the appellant and deleted the addition of
Rs.35,52,82,900/- which explanation was equally applicable for 66 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. the aforesaid addition but the Ld. CIT(A) sustained the addition
for reasons which are contrary to the findings given by him in
the aforesaid Paras 78 and 79 of his order and even on this
ground the above addition is liable to be deleted. This addition is
strictly inter-linked with the above addition of
Rs.35,52,82,900/- and even therefore the same is bound to be
deleted for the same reasons. In light of the above, it is amply
clear that the investments reflected on the seized page
aggregating to Rs. 6,24,27,471/- does not represents
investments of the assessee, much less unexplained
investments. The Ld. A.R. submitted before the Bench that the
seized documents which were in the form of
letter/correspondence between two offices of the assessee
Madras and Mumbai did contain in about shares. The copies of
the seized pages are filed in a paper book at page No.209 to 220
of paper book No.3. The Ld. A.R. submitted that the Madras
office was rendering various services such as safe custody of
shares on behalf of other entities and also rendering various
other services such as registration of unregistered shares,
transferring shares purchased on behalf of other entities to
Mumbai office. The Ld. A.R. referred to page No.422 and 423
wherein the details of investments as found in the seized letters
was tabulated and also to page 409 to 418 of paper book No.3
which contained the breakup of the investments made pursuant
to the seized letter and also the detail of brokers by whom these
transactions were carried out. The appellant therefore prays
that the addition made in the present case deserves to be
deleted. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. 86. We have examined the copies of credit notes filed on
sample basis which are at page No.424 to 473 of paper book
No.3. We observe on the basis of all these documents that in
none of the letters indicated anything that these shares belong
to the assessee. Contrary to this, on each of the letter the
transferee name has clearly been mentioned. We also note that
in the first round of litigation Ld. CIT(A) in para No.78 & 79 in
his order dated 24.02.2000 accepted the contentions of the
assessee and deleted the addition to the tune of
Rs.35,52,82,900/- with the explanation which is also applicable
to the present addition, however, we note that Ld. CIT(A)
sustained the addition which is contrary to the findings given by
him in par 78 & 79. Besides we have already adjudicated the
similar issue in ground No.10 wherein we have set aside the
order of Ld. CIT(A) and directed the AO to delete the addition on
this very ground. Accordingly, in view of these facts and
circumstances we are inclined to set aside the order of Ld. CIT(A)
and direct the AO to delete the addition. Ground No.15 is
allowed. 87. The issue raised in ground No.16 is against the
confirmation of disallowance of interest by Ld. CIT(A) of
Rs.69,98,298/- as made by the AO on account of disallowance
of interest expenditure. 88. The facts in brief are that the AO noted from the books of
accounts submitted by the assessee in the second round that
the assessee has claimed interest of Rs.69,98,298/- which was
not claimed in the first round of litigation. The said interest was 68 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. claimed on the outstanding amount to notified broker entities is
payable. The AO treated the interest expenditure as contingent
liability and accordingly rejected the claim of the assessee. 89. At the outset, the Ld. Counsel of the assessee pointed out
that the issue is a recurring issue over the years and the co-
ordinate bench of the Tribunal has consistently allowed similar
claims in the case of the assessee as well as other related
concerns. The Ld. A.R. submitted that even the predecessors of
the AO were allowing the expenses of interest as claimed by
several entities including the assessee right from assessment
year 1986-87 onwards which was discontinued after assessee
and other entities got notified under section 3(2) of the Torts Act.
The Ld. A.R., therefore, prayed that the order of Ld. CIT(A) may
kindly be set aside and the AO be directed to delete the
disallowance. In defense of his arguments the Ld. A.R. relied on
the following decisions: 90. The Ld. D.R., on the other hand, relied on the grounds of
appeal and order of authorities below. 91. After perusing the facts of the case and in the light of
various decisions referred to by the Ld. A.R., we find that issue
is squarely covered in favour of the assessee by the above
decisions. For the sake of ready reference, the operative part in 69 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. the case of M/s. Growmore Leasing & Investment Ltd. vs. DCIT ITA No.1219/Mum/2017 & ors for A.Y. 2012-13 is extracted below: 13. Similar issue was involved in the case of other family member, i.e. Shri Hitesh S.
Mehta for A.Y. 2005-06 where also the AO has disputed the very existence of
liability towards interest to creditors. The CIT(A) vide his order dated 31.08.2010
confirmed and approved the claim of the assessee that there was no need for any
written agreement and that the oral agreement coupled with action and intentions
of the parties is sufficient to prove the existence of liability. This order of the CIT(A)
was followed by him in the case of the assessee while adjudicating the ground
relating to interest expenses for A.Y. 2006-07 vide order dated 27.09.2013 under
para 6 which has been reproduced under para 18 of the order of the assessee.
These finding and observation in the above orders of the CIT(A) has not been
disputed by the Revenue by filing an appeal. In view of this finding becoming final,
in our view, the existence of liability for payment of interest cannot be disputed. 14. Coming to the objection of the Revenue that interest cannot be allowed as
deduction has not been shown by recipients in their income. As has been discussed
by us in the preceding paragraphs the interest has been shown as income by Mr.
Ashwin S. Mehta in assessment years 2010- 11 and 2011-12. We also noted that
Late Shri Harshad Mehta has been offering his income on cash basis and the
method of accounting has been duly upheld by the Tribunal in his case for A.Y.
1989-90. Even otherwise disallowance of interest claimed by the assessee cannot
be made merely because in the opinion of the AO the corresponding interest
income has not been offered by the recipients. The interest can be allowed on the
basis of method of accounting followed by the assessee. We noted that similar
issue when arose in the case of M/s. Growmore Leasing & Investment Ltd. vs. CIT in
ITA No. 51354 & 5136/Mum/2012 wherein the Coordinate Bench of this Tribunal
while setting aside the issue to the file of the CIT(A) directed him to tax the income
in the hands of recipient family members in accordance with the method of
accounting followed by them. We find force in the submission of the learned A.R.
that since the assessee as well as the recipients are notified entities under the Special Court Act unless the Court directs for distribution of the assets towards
existing liabilities under Section 11(2) of the Special Court Act, the assessee cannot
make the payment to these creditors. Even otherwise since the existence of liability
towards interest has accrued especially when the assessee is following the
mercantile system of accounting the interest is to be allowed. During the course of
hearing we raised a query about the nexus of interest expenses with the interest 71 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. income. The learned A.R. pointed out that the liability in the present case was
accrued on account of purchases of shares and securities by the assessee which
were sold in terms of the directions of the Hon'ble Special Court in subsequent
years and the sale proceeds so received were invested in term deposits with the
banks and accordingly the assessee has claimed interest expenditure against the
interest earned on term deposits. No contrary evidences or material were brought
to our knowledge to contradict this fact. In view of this fact we find that there is a
nexus between borrowed funds and investments in term deposits. Therefore, the
interest paid on the borrowed funds has to be allowed out of the interest earned by
the assessee on term deposits. We noted that identical issue was raised in the case
of M/s. Growmore Leasing & Investment Ltd. in A.Y. 2007-08. The CIT(A) in his
order dated 26.02.2012 considered the issue of nexus of interest expenditure with
interest income, following his own finding in the case of another notified entity, i.e.
Eminent Holding Pvt. Ltd. for A.Y. 2007-08 which are reproduced as under: - 15. Similar issue has arisen in the case of Shri Hitesh S. Mehta for A.Y. 2005-06
wherein the CIT(A) vide his order dated 31.08.2010 approved the nexus between
borrowed funds and the investment in term deposit which has been followed by
the CIT(A) even in the case of the assessee for A.Y. 2006-07 dated 27.09.2013. We
do not agree with the submission of the learned D.R. that interest expenses cannot
be allowed till the Hon'ble Special Court decide the issue. The allowance or
disallowance of the expenditure depends on the accrual of expenditure. Even no
dispute has been raised in respect of interest on such credit balances before the
Special Court. Even on this basis, following the principle of consistency, as the
interest has been allowed as deduction in the A.Y. 2006-07 and there is no change
in the facts, the deduction in respect of the interest expenditure has to be allowed.
Our aforesaid view is supported by the following decisions: At pg 329 of the judgement, Their Lordships observed as under: The aforesaid dictum of law was reiterated recently by the Supreme Court in CIT vs.
Excel Industries Ltd. : 358 ITR 295. 16. In view of our aforesaid discussion we set aside the order of the CIT(A) and
direct the AO to allow deduction in respect of said interest accrued and calculated
at 12% per annum amounting to `2,64,72,208/- after disallowing proportionate
interest in respect of the investment in shares amounting to `3,51,176/- after
verifying the calculation of the interest quantification." M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. 92. Since the facts of the ground are similar to one as decided
by the co-ordinate bench of the Tribunal in M/s. Growmore
Leasing & Investment Ltd. vs. DCIT (supra), we, therefore,
respectfully following the same direct the AO to allow the
deduction in respect of interest of Rs.69,98,298/-. 93. The issue raised in ground No.17 & 18 are inter related.
The issue raised in ground No.17 is against the confirmation of
interest as levied by the AO under section 234A, 234B & 234C
whereas the issue in ground No.18 is that no interest can be
computed under section 234A, 234B, 234C in respect of that
income which was subjected to provision of TDS. 94. At the outset, the Ld. Counsel of the assessee submitted
that the issue is a recurring issue over the years and the co-
ordinate bench of the Tribunal has consistently held that
interest should be computed by the AO in consonance with the
judicial precedents referred to in the respective orders. The Ld.
A.R. submitted that the AO has not been following and abiding
by the orders of the higher authorities and wrongly levying
higher interest on all notified entities. The Ld. A.R. submitted
that in this case also, the AO should be directed to compute the
interest in terms of the following decisions: M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. 95. Ld. D.R., on the other hand, relied on the orders of
authorities below. 96. After hearing both the parties and perusing the material on
record, we observe that the interest under section 234A, 234B,
234C is mandatory under the provisions of the Act as has been
held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of Anjum H.
Ghaswala 252 ITR 1 SC and therefore the ground No.17 is
dismissed. So far as the ground No.18 is concerned, we find
merit in the contentions of the assessee that while computing
the interest under section 234A , 234B , 234C of the Act , the tax
deductible at source on the income assessed has to be reduced
as has been held in the case of M/s. Growmore Leasing
Investment Ltd. (supra). 97. Since the facts of the instant issue before us is identical
vis-à-vis the coordinate bench decision supra, we accordingly,
direct the AO to re-compute the interest under section 234A , 234B and 234C of the Act in terms of the above decision after
reducing the amount of tax deductible at source on the income
assessed. Ground is allowed for statistical purposes.
Accordingly, the ground No.18 is allowed for statistical
purposes. 98. The issue raised in 19th ground of appeal is against the
enhancement of income of Rs.5,50,04,109/- by Ld. CIT(A) which
was made on account of difference in the balances as per books
of accounts of the assessee and books of M/s. Harshad S.
Mehta. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. 99. The facts in brief are that in course of appellate
proceedings in the second round, the Ld. CIT(A) observed that
M/s. Vyas & Vyas auditors appointed by Special Court had
noted discrepancies in the account of M/s. Harshad S. Mehta as
per the books of accounts of the assessee vis-à-vis the account
of assessee in the books of accounts of M/s. Harshad S. Mehta
as on 31.03.1991 of Rs.5,50,04,109/-. Accordingly, a show
cause notice dated 24.12.2018 was issued to the assessee by Ld.
CIT(A) calling upon the assessee to explain as to why the
enhancement should not be made in respect of the said
difference of Rs. 5,50,04,109/- in the balances as stated supra.
The assessee has submitted vide letter dated 31.12.2018 that
the auditors were illegally appointed by the custodian without
taking the permission from Hon'ble Special Court. The Ld. A.R.
also stated that the report of M/s. Vyas & Vyas has been
challenged by Smt. Jyoti S. Mehta by filing MA/70/2014 and
Hon'ble Special Court vide its order dated 28.11.2014 has
concluded that the said report is not an evidence but it is to be
treated only as an opinion of the expert. The Ld. A.R. also
submitted that difference between the two books of accounts
was because of reasons that different methods of accounting
were followed by the assessee and M/s. Harshad S. Mehta.
Besides account No.2095(84) in the books of accounts of M/s.
Harshad S. Mehta which showed amount payable to the
assessee of Rs.6,29,77,921/- was deliberately ignored by the
auditor. However, the Ld. CIT(A) dismissed the contention of the
assessee and enhanced the income by observing and holding as
under: respectively with M/s. Harshad S. Mehta, the latter has not shown these
 transactions in his books. In view of this, I find that a sum of Rs. 372,82,14,642/- is
 liable to be taxed in the hands of the appellant as income from undisclosed
 transactions and sources. Since,.this amount has not been brought to tax in the
 assessment, I enhance the appellant's income by this amount. So far as the balance
 differences are concerned, I find that they are to be examined in the cases of the
 related parties to see whether or not the balances have been brought to tax in their
 hands. Accordingly, I direct the Assessing Officer to examine these cases and take
 appropriate actions in terms of the relevant provisions." 28.5 In the instant case, it is noted that whereas M/s Harshad Mehta has disclosed
 transactions of Rs 22.98 crores, the assessee has disclosed transactions of only Rs
 17.48 crores. Therefore, the difference of Rs 5,50,04,109/- is liable to be taxed in
 the hands of the assessee as income arising for undisclosed transactions and
 sources. Since this amount has not been brought to tax in the assessment, the
 income of the assessee is enhanced by an amount of Rs 5,50,04,109/-." 100. The Ld. A.R. submits that the said enhancement has been
made by the Ld. CIT(A) without relevant jurisdiction and without
appreciating the facts of the present case. The ld AR submits
that the assessment in the present case has been made
pursuant to the directions of the Hon'ble Tribunal in the 1st
round of appeal and therefore the assessment proceedings in
present case were to be limited to the issues set-aside by the
Hon'ble Tribunal and could not be extended to the new issues
not raised in the 1st round of appeal. The ld AR submits that the
said issue of enhancement has not been raised in the 1st round
of appeal. Under these circumstances, the Assessing Officer 80 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. never had any jurisdiction to examine and assess any new issue
not dealt with in the 1st round of appeal. Since the Assessing
Officer never had a power to examine the said issues,
consequently, even the Appellate authority could not exercise
the power of enhancement and make the addition what
Assessing Officer could not have made as per law. The power of
the Appellate authorities are restricted to only raise those issues
which otherwise were within the power of the assessing
authority. The ld AR submits prays that the Ld. CIT(A) has
incorrectly raised the issue of enhancement of income without
valid jurisdiction and deserves to be deleted. The ld AR relies
on the following judicial decisions in defense of his arguments: 101. Without prejudice, the AR of the assessee argues that the
addition made by the Ld. CIT(A) was factually and legally
incorrect as the impugned addition has been made on account
of the difference between the balance of HSM in the books of the
assessee and the balance of the assessee in the books of HSM.
While making the addition, the Ld. CIT(A) has relied upon the
order of his predecessor in the case of HSM for A.Y. 1992-93
dated 24.02.2010. The ld AR submits that the assessee
factually denies any such difference in the balances between
books of account of the assessee and HSM. The AR also submits
that above the said difference in the balances determined by the
Ld. CIT(A) is unjustified as the details furnished by the assessee
explaining the alleged difference and the reconciliation 81 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. statements given in that regard have been rejected. The ld AR
contends that even that part of the difference was also duly
explained to be on account of different accounting methods
followed by both the parties. While the assessee follows
Mercantile system of accounting and HSM follows cash system
of accounting. Due to difference in the method of accounting,
certain transactions which have been accounted for by the
assessee in the year under appeal may have been accounted by
HSM in the subsequent year. 102. The ld. AR submits that the assessee has filed before Ld.
CIT(A) a chart showing the difference in the balances between
the 2 set of accounts which reflects the difference of Rs.
28,94,3867- whereas the Ld. CIT(A) has referred to the balances
as per the audit report of the auditors which showed a
difference at Rs. 5,50,04,109/-. The ld. AR contends that the
assessee that the said audit report was prepared without taking
into account all the relevant data and information. Moreover, all
the ledger accounts pertaining to the respective parties were not
taken into account while determining the difference. That the
said Chartered Accountant had no authority to provide their
report to the AO since it was first liable to be accepted by the
Special Court for its accuracy and the said report was prepared
for the specific purpose of making distribution u/s 11(2) of the
Torts Act. The ld. AR submits that under these circumstances,
the difference determined by the Ld. CIT(A) were not correct. 103. The ld. AR contends that the said report cannot be
considered a reliable evidence to come to conclusion that there 82 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. are differences in the Ledger account between the 2 parties as
the Hon'ble Special Court, in its order in MA No. 70 of 2014
dated 28.11.2014 [Page 531-533 of PB No. 3] has held that the
said report cannot be considered as a reliable piece of evidence
and that the report of the auditor is only an opinion expressed
by an expert. Moreover, the auditors, M/s. Vyas and Vyas in its
letter dated 06.12.2013 [Page No. 529-530 of PB No. 3] has also
categorically observed that several records were not verified by
them, and hence the audit has been carried out by them only on
the basis of the documents which were presented to them. The
Chartered Accountants, M/s. Vyas & Vyas had themselves
heavily qualified the report and not owned up the accuracy of
the findings given by them. The said report is prepared in the
case of M/s. Harshad S. Mehta and the Chartered Accountants
have even admitted before Custodian that they have not
considered all the accounts In the books of account particularly
where M/s. Harshad 6. Mehta had payables to other notified
entitles. The Chartered Accountants wanted to exaggerate the
payables by other notified entities being the family members and
corporate entities to M/s. Harshad S. Mehta so as to create false
justification for coercive steps being taken by the Custodian. It
may be noted that this report itself came into existence in the
year 2004 after almost 12 years from the time the original
assessment was made. In any event and even assuming without
admitting, if any such difference does exist the same does not
represent the taxable income of the appellant. 104. Without prejudice, the ld. AR further submits that the
identical issue was decided by the Ld. CIT(A) in the case of HSM 83 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. vide his order dated 24.02.2010. The said order was later
challenged in appeal before the Hon'ble Tribunal. The Hon'ble
Tribunal vide its order in ITA No, 5702/Mum/2017
dated14.01.2019, has held that all the account have to be
considered before coming to conclusion whether there is any
difference in the balances and between the 2 parties. The
Hon'ble Tribunal, therefore, held that the addition can be made
only in case if all the accounts have been considered and the
difference is not explained by the assessee. A copy of the
relevant pages of the order the Hon'ble Tribunal in the case of
Late Shri Harshad S. Mehta v. DCIT [ITA No. 5702/Mum/2017]
for A.Y. 1992-93 dated 14.01.2019 is enclosed at Page 534-549
of PB No. 3. In light of the above, the appellant humbly prays
that the addition made by the Ld. CIT(A) is devoid of merits. 105. The Ld. D.R., on the other hand, relied on the order of
authorities below by submitting that the difference of
Rs.5,50,04,109/- represented the difference between the books
of the assessee and M/s. Harshad S. Mehta and therefore was
rightly pointed out by the auditors M/s. Vyas & Vyas and was
rightly enhanced by the Ld. CIT(A). The Ld. D.R. submitted that
there is no power on the part of Ld. CIT(A) not to touch upon
those items of income which are not added or inadvertently left
in the first round of litigation. The Ld. D.R. submitted that
though the Tribunal has set aside the matter to the file of the AO
and AO has not made any decision, however, this can not be
construed that power of the Assessing Authority as well as Ld.
CIT(A) are curtailed in any way from making any prima-facie
addition which was omitted to be made in the earlier round. On 84 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. merit, the Ld. D.R. submitted that the auditors M/s. Vyas &
Vyas appointed by the custodian in order to bring out the truth
as these books of accounts were very complicated and fallacious
and thus auditors have only after carrying out the necessary
exercises and examination of the records and books of accounts
came to the conclusion that there is a difference between the
books of the assessee and M/s. Harshad S. Mehta in the mirror
account. The Ld. D.R. also brushed aside the contention of the
Ld. A.R. that all the accounts were not considered while working
out the difference. Lastly the Ld. D.R. brought before the Bench
that the ground raised by the assessee may kindly be dismissed. 106. We have heard the rival submissions of both the parties
and perused the material on record. The undisputed facts are
that the Ld. CIT(A) in the second round of litigation enhanced
the income of the assessee by Rs.5,50,04,109/- on the basis of
report of M/s. Vyas & Vyas, auditors appointed by the
custodian. The primary contentions of the Ld. A.R. was that the
said addition was without jurisdiction as no such addition was
ever made in the first round and since the Tribunal had set
aside the appeal to the file of the AO to frame the assessment
afresh which in any way enlarges the scope of assessment by
the AO in the set aside proceedings. Admittedly this item of
income was never a subject matter of dispute in the first round
as there was no addition made by the tax authorities. After
considering the facts of the case and the rival contention
including the case law cited by the Ld. A.R. , we are of the
considered opinion that the AO has power to examine only
those issues which were restored by the higher authority which 85 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. is ITAT in the present case and so is power of the ld. CIT(A). In
no way the powers can not be exercised to enhance the income
of the assessee in respect of those items of income which were
not the subject matter before the Tribunal. The case of the
assessee is supported by the decision of Kellog India Ltd. vs.
ACIT (supra) and ITO v. Jabbai Woodcrafts India Ltd (supra).
The facts and the facts and operative part of the decision in the
case of Kellog India Ltd. vs. ACIT (supra) extracted below: 107. We, therefore, respectfully following the decision of the co-
ordinate bench of the Tribunal, set aside the order of Ld. CIT(A)
and the ground of appeal raised by the assessee is allowed. On
merits also we find that addition is not sustainable. We note
that while making the addition the ld. CIT(A) has not taken all
the accounts of HSM in the books of accounts of the assessee
and all accounts of the assessee in the books of HSM. The main
argument of the Ld. A.R. was that all the accounts in the books
of accounts of the assessee as well as HSM have not been
considered. Upon perusal of page No.474 of paper book No.3
along with ledger accounts filed at page no.475 to 528 of paper
book No.3, we observe that the said difference of
Rs.5,50,04,509/- was calculated on the basis of a few ledger
accounts only. We note that the Ld. CIT(A) has on pick and
choose basis taken a few accounts for the purpose of
ascertaining and making the addition. Besides, we note that the
Ld. CIT(A) has taken the said difference on the basis of report of
the auditor M/s. Vyas & Vays appointed by the special court in
the case of HSM. We also note that the said auditors vide order
dated 06.12.2012 addressed to the custodian appointed under Special Court Act stated that they have not perused all the
records while carrying out the audit and the records which are
not examined by them could contain information and details
pertaining to the period under audit and therefore they have not
vouched the accuracy of their report and finding given and 87 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. qualified the same. In view of these facts, we are not agreement
with the conclusion drawn by the Ld. CIT(A) especially in view of
the facts that only a few accounts were considered while
ascertaining the addition and also the order of Special Court
dated 28.11.2014 in MA 70 of 2014 wherein the Special Court
has held that report issued by the Chartered Accountants M/s.
Vyas & Vyas can not be treated as evidence and it is only an
opinion expressed by the expert. Under these circumstances,
the findings of the Ld. CIT(A) are incorrect and can not be
sustained. We therefore are inclined to hold that even on merit
the addition has wrongly been made by the Ld. CIT(A) and
accordingly direct the AO to delete the addition. Accordingly,
Ground No.19 is allowed both on legal as well as on merit. 108. Accordingly, the appeal of the assessee is allowed. 109. The grounds raised by the revenue in its appeal are as
under:- however, the assessee company has shown Money Market Transactions at
 Rs.3,65,36,015/- only and balance amount of Rs.2,67,83,373/- not shown. 2. Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld.
 CIT(A) was justified in giving depreciation relief for an office premise to the
 assessee without considering the facts that such office premise was neither
 registered at the name of the assessee nor any stamp duty was paid till date. 3. Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld.
 CIT(A) was justified in allowing the relief to the assessee to capitalize the
 disallowance of interest under section. 14 A of the I.T. Act, 1961 only relying on
 the decision of the Hon'ble ITAT in case of Shri. Sudhir S. Mehta in ITA 88 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. No.5799/Mum/2014 for A.Ys. 2009-10 to AY. 2011-12 which ahs itself been
 challenged by the Department before the Hon'ble Bombay High Court." 110. The issue in ground No.1 raised by the Revenue is
discussed and decided in ground No.5 in the cross appeal of the
assessee in ITA No.504/M/2019 wherein we have allowed the
appeal of the assessee. Consequently, the ground raised by the
Revenue becomes infructuous and is dismissed. 111. The issue raised in ground No.2 is against the order of Ld.
CIT(A) allowing the depreciation on the office premises by
ignoring the fact that the same is not registered in the claim of
the assessee. 112. The facts in brief are that in the course of assessment
proceedings, the AO noticed that assessee has claimed
depreciation of Rs.4,38,000/- on the office premises on the
ground that the property is not registered in the name of the
assessee. The assessee has purchased the said property by
paying part consideration on 06.10.1990 and the balance
consideration was discharged on 13.10.1990 and immediately
the possession of the premises was also taken. When the search
was conducted on 28.02.1992, even the search team found that
the property was being used by the assessee for the purpose of
business. 113. In the appellate proceedings the Ld. CIT(A) allowed the
appeal of the assessee by observing and holding as under: 114. After hearing both the parties and perusing the material on
record, we observe that in this case the assessee has fully
discharged the purchase consideration till 13.10.1990 and had
taken the possession of the premises also. Even the search
team found that premises were being used by the assessee for
the business purpose. The only objection of the AO was that
the office premises were not registered in the name of the
assessee during the year and therefore depreciation was not
allowable. In our opinion there is no requirement of the
registered ownership of the property in order to claim the
depreciation. The issue is settled by the Hon'ble Supreme
Court in the case of Mysore Minerals Ltd. vs. CIT 239 ITR 775
(SC) wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that assessee is
using the assets for the purpose of business is entitled to
depreciation even if the asset was used is not registered in the
name of the assessee. We are, therefore, respectfully following
the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court, inclined to affirm the 90 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. order of Ld. CIT(A) by dismissing the ground No.2 raised by the
Revenue. 115. The issue raised in 3rd ground of appeal is against the
direction of Ld. CIT(A) to the AO for capitalization of interest in
the cost of securities which was disallowed under section 14A of
the Act. 116. The facts in brief are that the assessee has invested
borrowed funds in the shares and securities which were held as
investments. According to the assessee, the said interest
payable on the loans has to be capitalized as the same was
utilised for the purpose of investment in shares and securities.
The Ld. A.R. submitted before us that interest to that extent
which is not deductable deduction out of interest earned by the
assessee on the term deposits has to be capitalized. The Ld.
A.R. relied on the decision of the co-ordinate bench of the
Tribunal in assessee's related entity decision in ITA
No.1219/M/2017 A.Y. 2012-13 & ors. The relevant findings
given by the co-ordinate bench of the Tribunal in Sudhir S.
Mehta in ITA No.5799/M/2014 for A.Y. 2009-10 are extracted
below : 117. Considering the decisions of the coordinate bench, we do
not find any infirmity in the order of Ld. CIT(A) who has given 91 ITA No.259/M/2019 & ors. M/s. Growmore Research &
 Assets Management Ltd. the direction to the AO to allow the capitalization of interest in
the cost of share and securities after following the co-ordinate
bench decision as stated hereinabove. Accordingly, the order of
Ld. CIT(A) is affirmed on this ground. Ground No.3 is dismissed. 118. In the result, appeal of the assessee is partly allowed and
the appeal of the Revenue is dismissed. Order pronounced in the open court on 30.03.2021.