1. List revised. 2. Heard Sri Atul Srivastava, learned counsel for the applicant, Sri Rupak Chaubey, learned A.G.A. for State of U.P. and perused the record. 3. This bail application under Section 439 of Code of Criminal Procedure has been filed by the applicant Lokendra Singh, seeking enlargement on bail during trial in connection with Case Crime No.206 of 2019, under Section 420 , 467 , 468 , 471 , 409 , 201 , 120B I.P.C. read with section 58B sub- section 58A , 76A Company Act, 1956, P.S. Dadri, District Gautam Budh Nagar. 4. The prosecution case as per the F.I.R. lodged on 12.02.2019 by Sunil Kumar Meena s/o Devi Lal Meena resident of Flat No.-GF1, Bhavya Praide Apartment, S.K.I.T. Engineering College near Jagatpura, Jaipur against Sanjay Bhati, Rajesh Bhardwaj, Sunil Kumar Prajapati, Dipti Bahal, Sachin Bhati and Karan Pal Singh is that in the first week of October he entered into an agreement with a Bike Taxi Company by depositing Rs. 34 lakhs. The name of the company was Bike Bot powered by Gravit Innovative Promoter Limited, the owner of the said company is Sanjay Bhati and the other directors of the company are Rajesh Bhardwaj, Sunil Kumar Prajapati, Dipti Bahal, Sachin Bhati and Karan Pal Singh. The company was having its registered office at Plot No.1, Chiti, Gautam Budh Nagar, Greater Noida, U.P. and the other offices of the company are situated at Dadri and Grand Vanice Mall, Noida. The informant has executed the agreement with Sanjay Bhati on a stamp paper of Rs. 1000/- with the postulation that the company will open franchise by giving informant 51 bikes which would be operated like Ola Bike and Uber in Jaipur and as per the terms of the agreement the salary of 51 drivers will be given by the company and the company shall also provide rent of bike parking @ 200/- per bike. The informant came to know about the company from the Manger of Andhara Bank, Branch Jagat Pura, Jaipur who also informed him that he has also invested in six bikes and on further enquiry the informant came to know that many people of Jaipur who are acquainted to him have also invested in the said company. Each one of them were getting payment per month by the company but after 01-02 months the company stopped the payment. The informant was to get Rs. 6,45,000/- in his bank account of Andhara Bank but he received only Rs. 66,000/- from the company and since the last two months neither he nor anyone has received any money. The company has no bike online booking app. The informant many times visited the company but the officials told him that they only keep bikes for showing while the company earns by making people join the company and he should also pursue people to join the company if he wants to earn. Apart from 51 bikes only 26 bikes have been sent to the informant. The informant has came to know that the owner of the company Sanjay Bhati has appointed another CEO of the company, grabbed money of everyone and has cheated everyone. The company is not providing any bike taxi services rather it is rotating money as chit fund company. The company has promised to pay Rs.75 lakhs from investment of Rs. 34 lakhs. The company has done fraud with many people, the bank accounts of the company be seized and his report be lodged. 5. Learned counsel for the applicant argued that the applicant is not named in the F.I.R. It is argued that the applicant was made an Additional Director of the company GIPL on 24.12.2018 but after seeing the working of the company could not carry on in it and resigned from the said post on 01.2.2019 which was accepted. It is argued that the applicant is a person who has retired from Indian Armed Forces on 31.10.2017 as Lanc Nayak, para-10 of the affidavit being the details of his service have been placed before the Court. It is argued that on the offer by the company the applicant himself invested approximately Rs.21 lakhs but in lieu of assured and regular income and profit received Rs.45,84,000/- from the company, after which he has not received any money. It is argued that while being appointed as Additional Director of the company the applicant was not involved in the policy matters of the company as the company had already been incorporated and was in a working mode. It is argued that there is no allegation whatsoever regarding the applicant inducing the first informant for investing money or committing any cheating with him with regards go the alleged investment made by him. The applicant himself invested the money from his retiral benefits. Learned counsel has argued that there is no agreement between the applicant and the first informant with regards to any money or investment being done by the first informant. It is argued that there is nothing on record to show that the applicant was involved in misrepresenting the first informant and was actively involved in the act of cheating from inception. It is argued that the applicant has also been one of the persons cheated since he had also invested huge money from his retiral benefits but did not get the assured and due return. It is argued that the applicant is having no criminal history apart from the cases of the like nature of bike bot, para-29 of the affidavit has been placed before the Court for the same. It is argued that the applicant is in jail since 27.1.2022. 6. Per contra, learned State counsel opposed the prayer for bail and argued that the applicant was Additional Director of the company from 24.12.2018 to 01.02.2019. It is argued that the present case is such which is scam known as Bike Bot scam in which many persons invested money on being allured of impressive returns but the money was misappropriated by the officers of GIPL company. It is argued that charge sheet in the matter has been submitted against the applicant and the other co-accused persons in the present case. While placing para-15 of the counter affidavit it is argued that the applicant had received Rs.45,84,964/- from GIPL from 11th January, 2018 to 2nd February, 2019 and as such was beneficiary of the money of the company. It is argued that although the applicant is not named in the F.I.R. but his participation in the present incident has surfaced during investigation after which a charge sheet has been submitted against him and other co-accused persons. Learned A.G.A. although did not dispute the factum of investment of Rs.21 lakhs by the applicant in the company but argued that the applicant had received money in excess of the invested amount in his account which would go to show his participation in the matter. It is argued that as such the bail application of the applicant be rejected. 7. After having heard learned counsels for the parties and perusing the record, it is evident that the applicant is not named in the F.I.R. His implication in the matter has surfaced during investigation. Charge sheet in the matter has been filed against the applicant and the other co-accused persons and as such there are no chances of the applicant tempering with the evidence or not co-operating in the investigation. The applicant was appointed as Additional Director of the company from 24.12.2018 to 01.02.2019 after which he resigned from the said post which was accepted. The applicant was also one of the investors in the company. Although he has received some money in his bank account from the company but the same as such cannot be said to be ill-gotten money of other investors. Co-accused Sanjay Goyal has been granted bail vide order dated 28.5.2020 by a co-ordinate Bench of this Court passed in Criminal Misc. Bail Application No. 2766 of 2020, co-accused Adesh Bhati@Ajeet Bhati has been granted bail vide order dated 20.7.2021 passed by another Bench of this Court in Criminal Misc. Bail Application No. 21115 of 2021 and co-accused Sunil Kumar Prajapati@Sunil Prajapati has been granted bail vide order dated 27.1.2022 passed by another Bench of this Court in Criminal Misc. Bail Application No.26288 of 2021 and 26884 of 2021 respectively. Copies of the said bail orders have been annexed as annexure no. 7 to the affidavit. 8. Looking to the facts and circumstances of this case, the nature of evidence and also the absence of any convincing material to indicate the possibility of tampering with the evidence and the co-accused Sanjay Goyal, Adesh Bhati@Ajeet Bhati and Sunil Kumar Prajapati@Sunil Prajapati have been granted bail, this Court is of the view that the applicant may be enlarged on bail. 9. Let the applicant- Lokendra Singh, be released on bail in the aforesaid case crime number on furnishing a personal bond and two sureties (out of which one surety should be the family member of the applicant and the other should be a local person) each in the like amount to the satisfaction of the court concerned with the following conditions which are being imposed in the interest of justice:- 10. The identity, status and residential proof of sureties will be verified by court concerned and in case of breach of any of the conditions mentioned above, court concerned will be at liberty to cancel the bail and send the applicant to prison. 11. If the applicant possesses a passport, he shall deposit the same before the trial court. 12. The bail application is allowed. (Samit Gopal,J.)
 
Order Date :- 19.2.2024
 
Naresh