Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:19371 )

 IN THE HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA

 Cr. MP(M) No. 1104 of 2025
 Reserved on: 17.06.2025
 Date of Decision: 23.06.2025. Hon'ble Mr Justice Rakesh Kainthla, Judge.
 Whether approved for reporting?1 No

 For the Petitioner : Mr. Imran Khan, Advocate, vice Ms.
 Archana Dutt, Advocate. For the Respondent : Mr. Jitender Sharma, Additional
 Advocate General. Rakesh Kainthla, Judge

 The petitioner has filed the present petition for

 seeking regular bail in FIR No. 236 of 2024, dated 19.10.2024,

 registered at Police Station Sadar Chamba, District Chamba, H.P.,

 for the commission of offences punishable under Section 20 of

 the Narcotic Drugs & Psychotropic Substances Act (in short

 " NDPS Act ") and Section 39(1) (a) of the Himachal Pradesh

 Excise Act, 2011. Whether reporters of Local Papers may be allowed to see the judgment? Yes. Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:19371 ) 2. It has been asserted that the petitioner is innocent. He

has nothing to do with the commission of crime. As per the

prosecution, the contraband was recovered from the door of the

cowshed and not from the personal search of the petitioner. The

place from which the recovery was effected does not belong to the

petitioner but is an open place adjacent to the road, and anyone

can approach it. The petitioner was implicated at the instance of

some persons, who are inimical to the petitioner. The petitioner

is the sole earning member of the family. His old mother and

ailing wife are dependent upon him. He would abide by all the

terms and conditions which the Court may impose; hence, the

petition. 3. The petition is opposed by filing a status report

asserting that the police party had obtained a search warrant to

search the house of Birender Kumar-the present petitioner. The

police associated independent witnesses and conducted the

search of the house and cowshed in their presence. The police

recovered 1 plastic box kept near the door of the cowshed. The

police checked the box and found cannabis in it. Police also

recovered two boxes containing charas concealed beneath the 3 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:19371 )

tree adjacent to the cowshed. The police found a steel box kept in

the bundle of grass on the upper floor of the cowshed. The police

checked it and found ₹ 4,99,500/- in it. The charas was weighed

and its weight was found to be 5.92 kgs. The police checked the

store on the ground floor and recovered a box containing 12

bottles of Imperial Blue. The police arrested the petitioner and

seized the charas, liquor, and currency notes. FIR No. 85/2022

and FIR No. 59/2023 are registered against the petitioner, and FIR

No. 237/2011 was compounded at the instance of the petitioner. The petitioner has a criminal history. A commercial quantity of

charas was recovered from his possession. The petitioner would

jump over the bail and abscond in case of his release on bail; therefore, it was prayed that the present petition be dismissed. 4. I have heard Mr. Imran Khan, learned counsel for the

petitioner and Mr. Jitender Sharma, learned Additional Advocate

General, for the respondent/State. 5. Mr. Imran Khan, learned counsel for the petitioner,

submitted that the petitioner is innocent and was falsely

implicated. The recovery was not made from the petitioner's

house, but from the cowshed, which is accessible to all. Any 4 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:19371 )

person could have kept the charas near the cowshed; therefore,

he prayed that the present petition be allowed and the petitioner

be released on bail. 6. Mr. Jitender Sharma, learned Additional Advocate

General, for the respondent/State, submitted that the petitioner

was found in possession of a commercial quantity of charas. His

plea that he was not in possession of the charas is not acceptable

because the cowshed is in possession of the petitioner, and he

could exercise control over the cowshed and the articles kept

inside it. The petitioner has not satisfied the rigours of Section 37 of the NDPS Act; therefore, he prayed that the present petition be

dismissed. 7. I have given considerable thought to the submissions

made at the bar and have gone through the records carefully. 8. The parameters for granting bail were considered by

the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Ajwar v. Waseem (2024) 10 SCC 768: 9. This position was reiterated in Ramratan v. State of

M.P. , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 3068, wherein it was observed as under: 10. This position was reiterated in Shabeen Ahmed versus

State of U.P. , 2025 SCC Online SC 479. 11. The present petition has to be decided as per the

parameters laid down by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. 12. The status report shows that the police conducted a

search of the house and cowshed of the petitioner and recovered

the charas kept near the door of the cowshed and beneath the

tree. The police also recovered money from the upper storey of

the cowshed and liquor from the ground floor of the petitioner's 8 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:19371 )

house. It was submitted that recovery was made from an open

place, and the petitioner was not in possession of the charas. This

submission is not acceptable. It was laid down by the Hon'ble

Supreme Court in Union of India v. Mohd. Nawaz Khan , (2021) 10

SCC 100: (2021) 3 SCC (Cri) 721: 2021 SCC OnLine SC 1237, that a

person is in possession if he is in a position to exercise control

over the article. It was observed at page 111: The respondent has been accused of an offence under Section 8 of the NDPS Act, which is punishable under Sections 21 , 27-A , 29 , 60(3) of the said Act. Section 8 of the
 Act prohibits a person from possessing any narcotic drug
 or psychotropic substance. The concept of possession
 recurs in Sections 20 to 22 , which provide for punishment
 for offences under the Act. In Madan Lal v. State of
 H.P. [Madan Lal v. State of H.P., (2003) 7 SCC 465: 2003 SCC
 (Cri) 1664] this Court held that : (SCC p. 472, paras 19-23 & 26)

 "19. Whether there was conscious possession has to be
 determined with reference to the factual backdrop. The
 facts which can be culled out from the evidence on
 record are that all the accused persons were travelling
 in a vehicle, and as noted by the trial court, they were
 known to each other, and it has not been explained or
 shown as to how they travelled together from the same
 destination in a vehicle which was not a public vehicle. 20. Section 20(b) makes possession of contraband
 articles an offence. Section 20 appears in Chapter IV of
 the Act , which relates to offences for possession of such 9 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:19371 )

 articles. It is submitted that in order to make the
 possession illicit, there must be a conscious possession. 21. It is highlighted that unless the possession was
 coupled with the requisite mental element, i.e.
 conscious possession and not mere custody without
 awareness of the nature of such possession, Section 20 is not attracted. 22. The expression "possession" is a polymorphous
 term which assumes different colours in different
 contexts. It may carry different meanings in
 contextually different backgrounds. It is impossible, as
 was observed in Supt. & Remembrancer of Legal Affairs,
 W.B. v. Anil Kumar Bhunja [Supt . & Remembrancer of
 Legal Affairs, W.B. v. Anil Kumar Bhunja , (1979) 4 SCC 274: 23. The word "conscious" means awareness about a
 particular fact. It is a state of mind which is deliberate
 or intended. *** 26. Once possession is established, the person who
 claims that it was not a conscious possession has to
 establish it because how he came to be in possession is
 within his special knowledge. Section 35 of the Act gives
 a statutory recognition of this position because of the
 presumption available in law. Similar is the position in
 terms of Section 54 , where also a presumption is
 available to be drawn from possession of illicit articles." 26. What amounts to "conscious possession" was also
considered in Dharampal Singh v. State of Punjab
[Dharampal Singh v. State of Punjab, (2010) 9 SCC 608 : In Mohan Lal v. State of Rajasthan [Mohan Lal v. State of
 Rajasthan, (2015) 6 SCC 222: (2015) 3 SCC (Cri) 881], this
 Court also observed that the term "possession" could
 mean physical possession with animus; custody over the
 prohibited substances with animus; exercise of dominion
 and control as a result of concealment; or personal
 knowledge as to the existence of the contraband and the
 intention based on this knowledge. 13. Therefore, the petitioner cannot claim that he was not

in possession when he was able to exercise control over the

articles in the cowshed. Further, a presumption arises regarding

the possession under Sections 35 and 54 of the NDPS Act, and the

burden is upon the accused to rebut this presumption. Therefore,

prima facie, the prosecution's version that the petitioner was

found in possession of the charas has to be accepted as correct. The status report shows that 5.92 kgs of charas was recovered,

which is a commercial quantity; therefore, the rigours of Section

37 of NDPS apply to the present case. 14. Section 37 of the NDPS Act provides that in an offence

involving commercial quantity, the Court should be satisfied that

the accused is not guilty of the commission of an offence and is 11 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:19371 )

not likely to commit any offence while on bail. Section 37 of the

NDPS Act reads as under: 15. This Section was interpreted by the Hon'ble Supreme

Court in Union of India Versus Niyazuddin & Another (2018) 13 SCC

738 and it was held that in the absence of the satisfaction that the

accused is not guilty of an offence and he is not likely to commit 12 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:19371 )

an offence while on bail, he cannot be released on bail. It was

observed: 8. The accusation in the present case is with regard to the
 fourth factor, namely, commercial quantity. Be that as it
 may, once the Public Prosecutor opposes the application
 for bail to a person accused of the enumerated offences
 under Section 37 of the NDPS Act, in case, the court
 proposes to grant bail to such a person, two conditions are
 to be mandatorily satisfied in addition to the normal
 requirements under the provisions of the Cr.P.C . or any
 other enactment. (1) The court must be satisfied that there are
 reasonable grounds for believing that the person is
 not guilty of such an offence; (2) that person is not likely to commit any offence
 while on bail." 16. This position was reiterated in State of Kerala Versus

Rajesh, AIR 2020 SC 721, wherein it was held: Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:19371 ) 8. To check the menace of dangerous drugs flooding
 the market, Parliament has provided that the person
 accused of offences under the NDPS Act should not be
 released on bail during trial unless the mandatory
 conditions provided in Section 37 , namely, (i) there are reasonable grounds for believing
 that the accused is not guilty of such offence;
 and (ii) that he is not likely to commit any offence
 while on bail are satisfied. The High Court has
 not given any justifiable reason for not
 abiding by the aforesaid mandate while
 ordering the release of the respondent
 accused on bail. Instead of attempting to take
 a holistic view of the harmful socio-economic
 consequences and health hazards which
 would accompany trafficking illegally in
 dangerous drugs, the court should implement
 the law in the spirit with which Parliament,
 after due deliberation, has amended." 20. The scheme of Section 37 reveals that the exercise of
power to grant bail is not only subject to the limitations
contained under Section 439 of the CrPC but is also subject
to the limitation placed by Section 37 , which commences
with the non-obstante clause. The operative part of the
said section is in the negative form prescribing the
enlargement of bail to any person accused of the
commission of an offence under the Act unless twin
conditions are satisfied. The first condition is that the
prosecution must be given an opportunity to oppose the
application, and the second is that the Court must be
satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing
that he is not guilty of such an offence. If either of these
two conditions is not satisfied, the ban for granting bail
operates. 21. The expression "reasonable grounds" means something
more than prima facie grounds. It contemplates substantial 15 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:19371 )

 probable causes for believing that the accused is not guilty
 of the alleged offence. The reasonable belief contemplated
 in the provision requires the existence of such facts and
 circumstances as are sufficient in themselves to justify
 satisfaction that the accused is not guilty of the alleged
 offence. In the case on hand, the High Court seems to have
 completely overlooked the underlying object of Section 37 that in addition to the limitations provided under the CrPC ,
 or any other law for the time being in force, regulating the
 grant of bail, its liberal approach in the matter of bail under
 the NDPS Act is indeed uncalled for." 17. A similar view was taken in Union of India v. Mohd . Nawaz Khan, (2021) 10 SCC 100: (2021) 3 SCC (Cri) 721: 2021 SCC

OnLine SC 1237 wherein it was observed at page 110: 22. The standard prescribed for the grant of bail is
 "reasonable ground to believe" that the person is not guilty
 of the offence. Interpreting the standard of "reasonable
 grounds to believe", a two-judge Bench of this Court
 in Shiv Shanker Kesari [Union of India v. Shiv Shanker Kesari ,
 (2007) 7 SCC 798 : (2007) 3 SCC (Cri) 505], held that : (SCC
 pp. 801-02, paras 7-8 & 10-11)
 "7. The expression used in Section 37(1)(b)(ii) is
 "reasonable grounds". The expression means something
 more than prima facie grounds. It connotes substantial 16 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:19371 )

probable causes for believing that the accused is not
guilty of the offence charged, and this reasonable belief
contemplated in turn points to the existence of such facts
and circumstances as are sufficient in themselves to
justify the recording of satisfaction that the accused is
not guilty of the offence charged. 8. The word "reasonable" has in law the prima facie
meaning of reasonable in regard to those
circumstances of which the actor, called on to act
reasonably, knows or ought to know. It is difficult to
give an exact definition of the word "reasonable".
'7. ... Stroud's Judicial Dictionary, 4th Edn., p. 2258
states that it would be unreasonable to expect an
exact definition of the word "reasonable". Reason
varies in its conclusions according to the
idiosyncrasy of the individual, and the times and
circumstances in which he thinks. The reasoning
which built up the old scholastic logic sounds now
like the jingling of a child's toy.'
[See MCD v. Jagan Nath Ashok Kumar [MCD v. Jagan
Nath Ashok Kumar, (1987) 4 SCC 497], SCC p. 504, para
7 and Gujarat Water Supply & Sewerage
Board v. Unique Erectors (Gujarat) (P) Ltd. [Gujarat
Water Supply & Sewerage Board v. Unique Erectors
(Gujarat) (P) Ltd., (1989) 1 SCC 532] ]
 *** 10. The word "reasonable" signifies "in accordance
with reason". In the ultimate analysis, it is a
question of fact whether a particular act is
reasonable or not, depends on the circumstances in a
given situation. (See Municipal Corpn. of Greater
Mumbai v. Kamla Mills Ltd. [Municipal Corpn. of
Greater Mumbai v. Kamla Mills Ltd. (2003) 6 SCC 315] 11. The court, while considering the application for
bail with reference to Section 37 of the Act, is not
called upon to record a finding of not guilty. It is for 17 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:19371 )

 the limited purpose, essentially confined to the
 question of releasing the accused on bail, that the
 court is called upon to see if there are reasonable
 grounds for believing that the accused is not guilty
 and records its satisfaction about the existence of
 such grounds. But the court has not to consider the
 matter as if it is pronouncing a judgment of acquittal
 and recording a finding of not guilty." (emphasis
 supplied) 23. Based on the above precedent, the test which the High
 Court and this Court are required to apply while granting
 bail is whether there are reasonable grounds to believe that
 the accused has not committed an offence and whether he
 is likely to commit any offence while on bail. Given the
 seriousness of offences punishable under the NDPS Act and
 in order to curb the menace of drug trafficking in the
 country, stringent parameters for the grant of bail under
 the NDPS Act have been prescribed. 18. In the present case, there is nothing on record to show

that the petitioner is involved in the commission of an offence

involving the commercial quantity and that he is not likely to

commit similar offences in case of his release on bail; therefore,

the petitioner cannot be enlarged on bail. 19. The status report shows that the petitioner has

criminal antecedents, and two FIRs were registered against him,

which are pending before the Court. This Court exhaustively dealt

with the relevance of criminal antecedents in Aminodin vs State of

H.P. 2024: HHC: 6091 and held, after referring to various 18 Neutral Citation No. ( 2025:HHC:19371 )

judgments, that a Judge must consider the criminal antecedents

of the accused, the nature of such offences and his general

conduct while considering the bail petition. The bail should not be

generally granted to an accused having criminal antecedents

when there is a likelihood of the commission of the crime. 20. It was held in V. Senthil Balaji v. Enforcement

Directorate , 2024 SCC OnLine SC 2626, that where the petitioner

can become a threat to society because of his criminal

antecedents, he should not be released on bail. It was observed: 21. Similarly, it was held in Union of India v. Barakathullah ,

2024 SCC OnLine SC 1019, that where the persons were involved in

the commission of an offence, similar offences, they should not

be released on bail. It was observed: - 22. Therefore, the petitioner is not entitled to bail because

of his criminal antecedents. 23. No other point was urged. 24. In view of the above, the present petition fails, and the

same is dismissed. 25. The observations made heretofore shall remain

confined to the disposal of the petition and will have no bearing,

whatsoever, on the merits of the case. (Rakesh Kainthla)
 Judge
 23rd June, 2025
 (saurav pathania)