The petitioner no.1 is a Company registered under the Companies Act, 1956 . The said Company claims that the said
 Company is basically engaged in real estate and money
 marketing business and is also trying to extend its business
 activities in various other fields such as running of hospitals,
 shopping malls, restaurants etc. It is further claimed by the
 petitioners that the petitioner no.1 has been enlisted as a Chit
 Fund Company by the Government of India, Ministry of
 Commerce and Industries. In this writ petition, a complaint is made against the
 Registering Authority as the Registering Authority refused to
 accept a deed of conveyance executed by the petitioner-
 Company in favour of its purchaser for its registration on the
 strength of a Government Order issued by the Additional
 Secretary, Finance Department and Inspector General of
 Registration & commissioner of Stamp Revenue, West Bengal
 on 10th May, 2013 vide Memo No. 1738/IM-101/2013. The
 said order is set out hereunder : On perusal of the said order, this Court finds that the
said Government Order was issued to impose restriction on
registration of any deed concerning transfer and/or dealing
with any property either directly or indirectly in the name of
any of the said 73 companies against which complaints were
received for indulging in Ponzi/MLM Schemes. List of those 73 companies has also been submitted by
Mr. Sengupta, learned advocate appearing for the State-
respondents in Court today wherefrom it appears that name of
the petitioner-Company viz., Ramel Industries Limited is
mentioned under Serial No. 54. Since the petitioner no.1/Company is also included in
the list of those 73 Companies, this Court was hesitant to
dispose of this writ petition without inviting affidavits from the
parties or without ascertaining the nature of complaint 3 received against the petitioner-Company or without
ascertaining as to whether the petitioner-Company is involved
in indulging in Ponzi/MLM Schemes. However, Mr. Sengupta submits on instruction received
from his client's representative viz., Shri Ashok
Bandyopadhyay, Deputy Commissioner of Stamp Revenue
(Legal), West Bengal who is present in Court today that no
complaint against any financial irregularity, not even any
complaint for indulging in Ponzi/MLM Schemes has yet been
received by his client against the petitioner-Company. In view of such instruction given by Mr. Bandyopadhyay,
Mr. Sengupta submits that his client does not want to file any
affidavit in this matter as nothing can be disclosed in the
affidavit about any complaint concerning the petitioner-
Company. If that be so, then this Court does not find any
justification to apply the restriction which was imposed by the
Government Order dated 10th May, 2013, as referred to above,
on transfer of the property of the petitioner no.1 viz., Ramel
Industries Limited and/or on registration of the transfer deed
to be presented by the said petitioner. In my view, the petitioner against whom there is no
complaint of any financial irregularity cannot be treated at par
with the other seventy-two companies against whom
allegations for indulging in Ponzi/MLM Schemes are there. As such, this Court disposes of this writ petition by
permitting the petitioner-Company to present the transfer deed
for its registration to the Registering Authority and on such
presentation being made, the Registering Authority will
complete the registration of the said document by following the
provisions contained in the Registration Act notwithstanding
the Government Order issued on 10th May, 2013 as referred to
above. While disposing of this writ petition, this Court has not
considered the respective submissions of the learned counsel
of the respective parties regarding the legality of the said
Government Order as, such consideration is not needed
presently in view of the submission of Mr. Sengupta as
recorded above. It is, however, made clear that this order is passed only
by taking note of the submission of Mr. Sengupta that no
complaint has yet been received against the petitioner-
Company herein concerning any financial irregularity
committed by it or for its involvement for indulging in
Ponzi/MLM Schemes. It is thus made clear that in the event any complaint
which worth consideration is subsequently received against
this Company for any financial irregularity or for indulging in
Ponzi/MLM Schemes, then the State-respondents are free to
take necessary action against the said Company in accordance
with law. The writ petition is, thus, disposed of. Urgent photostat certified copy of this order, if applied
for, be furnished to the applicant as early as possible. (JYOTIRMAY BHATTACHARYA, J.)