Reliance Industries Limited
 3rd Floor, Maker Chambers IV,
 222, Nariman Point,
 Mumbai - 400 021. 2. Gujarat Petcoke and Petro Product Supply Pvt. Ltd.
 White House, Opp. 9 Patel Colony,
 Bedi Road, Jamnagar - 361 008. 3. Teesta Retail Private Limited
 (Aarthik Commercials Pvt. Limited,
 one of the Named Entity, ultimately merged into
 Teesta Retail Private Limited)
 4th Floor, Court House,
 Lokmanya Tilak Marg,
 Dhobi Talao, Mumbai - 400 002. 4. Reliance Petro Marketing Limited
 (LPG Infrastructure India Pvt. Ltd. one of the Named Entity, merged into this entity)
 5th Floor, Court House,
 Lokmanya Tilak Marg,
 Dhobi Talao, Mumbai - 400 002. 5. Relpol Plastic Products Pvt. Limited
 C-1, MIDC Industrial Area,
 Shivani Village,
 Akola - 444 104. 6. Fine Tech Corporation Pvt. Limited
 3rd Floor, Court House,
 Lokmanya Tilak Marg,
 Dhobi Talao, Mumbai - 400 002. 7. Reliance Ports and Terminals Limited
 (Pipeline Infrastructure India Pvt. Limited
 one of the Named Entity merged into
 Reliance Ports and Terminals Limited)
 Admin Building, MTF Area, Village Sikka,
 Taluka & District Jamnagar - 361 140. 8. Motech Software Pvt. Limited
 (represented by erstwhile Director
 K. Varadarajan since the name of this entity
 has been struck off u/s 560 of the
 Companies Act, 1956)
 104-B, Sukhmani CHS Ltd. Yashodham, Goregaon (East),
 Mumbai - 400 063. 9. Darshan Services Pvt. Limited
 (earlier known as Darshan Securities Pvt. Ltd.)
 84-A, 8th Floor, Mittal Court,
 224, Nariman Point,
 Mumbai - 400 021. 10.Relogistics (India) Pvt. Limited
 (including on behalf of Relogistis (Rajasthan)
 Pvt. Ltd., one of the Named Entities,
 which merged into this entity)
 3rd Floor, Court House,
 Lokmanya Tilak Marg,
 Dhobi Talao, Mumbai - 400 002. 11.Vinamara Universal Traders Pvt. Limited
 Jai Centre, 1st Floor,
 34, P.D'Mello Road,
 Opp. Red Gate, Mumbai - 400 009. 12.Dharti Investment and Holdings Pvt. Limited
 Jai Centre, 1st Floor,
 34, P.D'Mello Road,
 Opp. Red Gate, Mumbai - 400 009. <Appellants

 Versus

Securities and Exchange Board of India
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G Block,
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),
Mumbai - 400 051. < Respondent

Mr. Harish Salve, Senior Advocate with Mr. Janak Dwarkadas,
Senior Advocate, Mr. Raghav Shankar, Mr. Rohan
Rajadhyaksha, Mr. Ashwath Rav, Mr. Kashish Batia, Mr. Vivek
Shetty, Mr. Amey Nabar, Mr. Geetanjali Sharma, Ms. Arundhati
Kelkar, Mr. Armaan Patkar, Ms. Cheryl Fernandes and Mr.
Vedant Jalan, Advocates i/b AZB Partners for Appellants.

Mr. Darius Khambata, Senior Advocate with Mr. Gaurav Joshi,
Senior Advocate, Mr. Aditya Mehta, Mr. Mihir Mody and Mr.
Shehaab Roshan, Advocates i/b K. Ashar & Co. for the
Respondent. CORAM : Justice Tarun Agarwala, Presiding Officer
 Dr. C. K. G. Nair, Member
 Justice M.T. Joshi, Judicial Member

Per : Justice Tarun Agarwala, Presiding Officer 1. The appellants have preferred the present appeal against

the order dt 24.03.2017 passed by the Whole Time Member

(WTM) exercising the powers under section 11 & 11B of the

Securities And Exchange Board Of India Act 1992 (SEBI Act ), Section 12A of Securities Contract (Regulation) Act 1956 (SCR

Act ) read with Regulation 11 of Securities And Exchange Board

Of India (Prohibition Of Fraudulent And Unfair Trade Practices

Relating To Securities Market) Regulations 2003 (PFUTP

Regulations). The WTM in its order issued the following

directions, namely, (i) The appellants are prohibited from dealing in equity

 derivatives in F&O segment of Stock Exchanges,

 directly or indirectly, for a period of one year from

 the date of the order. (ii) Appellant no. 1 shall disgorge an amount of Rs

 447.27 Crs alongwith interest @12% p.a. w.e.f.

 29.11.2017 onwards till the date of payment. 2. The period of restraint has already run its course and thus

the present appeal is confined to the question as to whether the

imposition of disgorgement in the facts of the present case was

justified or not. 3. The facts leading to the filing of the appeal is, that

appellant no. 1, Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) resolved in its

Board meeting on 29.03.2007 to generate funds for completion of

various projects to the extent of Rs 87,000 Cr. Reliance Petroleum

Ltd. (RPL) was a listed subsidiary of RIL and was holding

approx 75% of shares in RPL. Appellants No. 2 to 13 are agents

of RIL under an agreement, who took an aggregate net short

positions of 9.92 Cr shares in Nov, 2007 in RPL Futures on the

Stock Exchange as a hedge against the proposed sale by RIL in

the cash segment. 4. In May 2006, RPL made a public issue of its shares @ Rs

60/- per share. In Sept 2007, the price was Rs 150/- per share. On

31.10.2007 the share price increased to 247.90 per share.

According to the analyst reports of Goldman Sachs and Kotak

Institutional Securities in Sept/Oct 2007, the shares were shown

to be overpriced and, according to them, the value should have -6- been around Rs 150/- per share. In this backdrop, it was decided

to sell 5% of its shareholdings in RPL which roughly worked out

to 22.5 Cr shares. The decision to sell the shares was based on the

premise that the shares of RPL were overvalued. 5. Offloading 5% of the shares in RPL by its promoter RIL

would cause a flutter in the stock market and would not be in

the interest of the investors. Selling approx 22.5 Cr shares would

make the price of the share of RPL to fall significantly. Keeping

this in mind, the appellant no. 1 was required to sell the shares

in an orderly manner that would protect the integrity of the

market and consequently appointed 12 agents, namely

appellants 2 to 13 under a written agreement to take aggregate

net short position of 9.92 Cr shares in Nov 2007 RPL Futures

between 1.11.2007 and 6.11.2007 as a hedge against the proposed

sale in the cash segment. The settlement period for the Nov 2007

RPL Futures was from 1.11.2007 to 29.11.2007. 6. On 1.11.2007 the share price of RPL touched a high of Rs

294/-. It is at this point, a decision was taken to sell the shares of

RPL. The agents of appellant no. 1 took short positions between

1.11.2007 and 6.11.2007. From 6.11.2007 to 29.11.2007, RIL sold -7- 20.29 Cr shares out of proposed 22.5 Cr shares in the cash

segment of NSE and BSE out of which 2.25 Cr shares were sold

in the last ten minutes, i.e. between 3.21.40 p.m. to 3.30.00 pm on

29.11.2007. The impugned order contains a factual error, namely,

that 1.95 Cr shares were sold in the last 10 minutes. The correct

figure is 2.25 Cr shares. 7. The sale of 20.29 Cr shares in the cash segment was done

over a period of 11 trading days. 13.83 Cr shares were sold on

the NSE platform and 6.46 Cr shares were sold on the BSE

platform. 8. The short positions taken by the two agents, namely

appellants no. 12 and 13 were squared off before 29.11.2007.

However, the short positions taken by the remaining 10 agents

were closed on 29.11.2007 at the settlement price, i.e. the last half

an hour weighted average price in the cash segment on

29.11.2007. It may be noted here, that physical delivery of shares

is not allowed in the futures segment under the SEBI laws and

Regulations and Stock Exchanges bye laws. Positions taken in

the futures segment has to be cash settled after squaring off or

closing out on the last day of the settlement. 9. The appellant nos. 2 to 13 squared off 1.95 Cr shares short

positions by purchases in the Nov 2007 RPL Futures between

7.11.2007 to 28.11.2007. They had an aggregate outstanding open

interest short position of 7.97 Cr shares on 29.11.2007. These

short positions were closed out by NSE on 29.11.2007 at the

settlement price, i.e. last half an hour weighted average price in

the cash segment (closing price) in accordance with the NSE bye

laws. 10. In this way, RIL realized Rs 4500 Cr from the sale of the

shares in the cash segment and Rs 513 Cr from the futures

segment through the 12 agents, thus realized an aggregate

amount of Rs 5013 Cr. 11. On 16.07.2008, SEBI sought certain information from RIL

with regard to the above transactions. In this regard, various

communications were made between SEBI and RIL between July

2008 to Jan 2009 through which RIL disclosed the agency

agreement with appellants no. 2 to 13. 12. Based on the information gathered by SEBI, a Show Cause

Notice dt 29.04.2009 was issued against RIL only alleging

violations of the SEBI Act and PFUTP Regulations 2003. A -9- corrigendum notice dt 8.10.2009 was issued to show cause why

appropriate directions should not be issued under Regulation 11 of SEBI (Prohibition Of Insider Trading) Regulations 1992. RIL

filed their appropriate response. It transpires that based on the

reply filed by RIL, SEBI conducted a reinvestigation in the

transactions done by RIL and its agents, pursuant to which a

Second Show Cause Notice dt 16.12.2010 was issued to all the

appellants in supersession to the first Show Cause Notice and

corrigendum notice. 13. The Show Cause Notice alleged that; (i) The appellants have violated the provisions of the

 SEBI Act, 1992, Securities Contracts (Regulation)

 Act, 1956, SEBI (Prevention of Fraudulent and

 Unfair Trade Practices) Regulations,2003 and

 Rules, Regulations and Bye-laws of the National

 Stock Exchange of India Limited pertaining to

 F&O trading in particular, Section 11 of the SEBI

 Act, 1992, Section 11B of the SEBI Act, 1992, Section

 12A of the SEBI Act, 1992, Section 12A of the

 Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956,

 Sections 18A of the Securities Contracts -10- (Regulation) Act, 1956, Regulation 3(a), (b), (c), (d)

 and Regulation 4(1), 4(2)(d), (e) of SEBI (Prevention

 of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices)

 Regulations, 2003, SEBI circular no. SMDRP/DC/CIR-10/01 dated November 2, 2001,

 NSE Circular no. NSE/CMPT/2982 dated

 November 7, 2001, Regulation 3 .2 of National

 Stock Exchange (Futures & Options segment)

 Trading Regulations and Byelaw 4 of Chapter VII

 of National Securities Clearing Corporation

 Limited (Futures & Options Segment) Bye Laws

 read with Byelaw 12 of Chapter I of National

 Securities Clearing Corporation Limited (Futures

 & Options Segment) Bye Laws. (ii) Appellants no. 1-13, in pursuance of the individual

 agreements between appellant no. 1 and appellants

 no. 2-13, by taking positions in the F&O segment of

 the scrip of RPL in excess of the limits specified

 vide SEBI circular no. SMDRP/DC/CIR-10/01 dated

 November 2, 2001 and NSE circular no. NSE/CMPT/2982 dated Nov 7, 2001, have violated -11- SEBI circular no. SMDRP/DC/CIR-10/01 dated Nov

 2, 2001, NSE circular no. NSE/CMPT/2982 dated

 Nov 7, 2001, Regulation 3 .2 of National Stock

 Exchange (Futures & Options segment) Trading

 Regulations, Byelaw 4 of chapter VII of National

 Securities Clearing Corporation Limited (Futures

 & Options Segment) Bye laws read with Byelaw 12

 of Chapter I of National Securities Clearing

 Corporation Limited (Futures & Options Segment)

 Bye laws, thus have rendered the futures contracts

 entered into by all of them in violation of section

 18A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act,

 1956 and hence, illegal and invalid and is in

 violation of Section 12A of the SEBI Act, 1992 read

 with Regulation 3(a) ,(b),(c) and (d) and Regulation

 4(1) and 4(2)(d) and (e) of the SEBI (Prevention of

 Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices)

 Regulations, 2003. (iii) Further, appellant no. 1, which held a large short

 position in November futures in the derivatives

 segment of the RPL scrip through appellant no. 2- -12- 13, by placing huge sell orders during the last ten

 minutes of trading on November 29,2007,

 depressed the share price of the RPL scrip, and

 consequently manipulated the settlement price of

 Nov RPL futures, which is in violation of Section

 12A of the SEBI Act, 1992 read with Regulation

 3(a) ,(b),(c) and (d) and Regulation 4(1) and 4(2)(d) and (e) of the SEBI (Prevention of Fraudulent and

 Unfair Trade Practices) Regulations, 2003. (iv) In view of the aforesaid violations, the appellants

 were called upon to show cause why all or any of

 the actions, including disgorgement of the undue

 and illegal profits made, and such other measures

 as deemed fit, in terms of SEBI Act, 1992 , Securities

 Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and SEBI (PFUTP

 relating to Securities market) Regulations, 2003

 should not be initiated. 14. The allegations in the Show Cause Notice are summarized

 as under:- 15. After considering the written replies, oral submissions and

written submissions, and, after considering the material

evidence on record, the Whole Time Member (WTM) passed the

impugned order against which the present appeal has been filed. 16. The WTM in the impugned order, framed the following

issues which arose for consideration, namely: 17. The WTM held: 13, as stated above constitute a violation of the -17- provisions of section 12A of SEBI Act, 1992 read

 with regulations 3, 4(1) and 4(2)(e) of the SEBI

 (PFUTP) Regulations, 2003 and that appellants

 Nos. 2 to 13 have also violated provisions of the

 SEBI circular No. SMDRP/DC/CIR-10/01 dt Nov 2,

 2001 and NSE circular no. NSE/CMPT/2982 dt Nov

 7, 2001. 18. Based on the above findings, the WTM issued certain

direction which has been stated earlier in the proceeding

paragraphs. 19. The findings of the WTM is based on the following: 2007 RPL Futures to make unlawful gains. This -18- cannot be construed as mere breach of position

 limits by the clients attracting penalty under the

 exchange circulars. (b) The sale of 1.95 Cr RPL shares in the cash segment

 by RIL during the last 10 minutes of trading on

 Nov. 29, 2007 have been done for depressing the

 last half an hour weighted average price (which is

 the settlement price for Nov. 2007 RPL Futures) to

 make gains on the 7.97 Cr outstanding short

 positions in Nov. 2007 RPL Futures is

 manipulative in nature as contemplated under

 PFUTP Regulations. (c) RIL made unlawful gains by this fraudulent and

 manipulative strategy/pattern of Rs 513 Cr. The

 actions of RIL and the 12 Named Entities constitute

 a violation of the provisions of Section 12A of the

 SEBI Act read with Regulations 3, 4(1) and 4(2)(e)

 of PFUTP Regulations. The 12 Named Entities

 have also violated provisions of 2001 SEBI Circular

 and 2001 NSE Circular. 20. We have heard Mr. Harish Salve, Senior Advocate with

Mr. Janak Dwarkadas, Senior Advocate, Mr. Raghav Shankar,

Mr. Rohan Rajadhyaksha, Mr. Ashwath Rav, Mr. Kashish Batia,

Mr. Vivek Shetty, Mr. Amey Nabar, Mr. Geetanjali Sharma, Ms.

Arundhati Kelkar, Mr. Armaan Patkar, Ms. Cheryl Fernandes

and Mr. Vedant Jalan, Advocates i/b AZB Partners for

Appellants; and Mr. Darius Khambata, Senior Advocate with

Mr. Gaurav Joshi, Senior Advocate, Mr. Aditya Mehta, Mr. Mihir

Mody and Mr. Shehaab Roshan, Advocates i/b K. Ashar & Co.

for the Respondent at length. We have also heard Mr. Arun

Kumar Agarwal and Mr. Shailesh Mehta who have appeared in

person as interveners. Before we proceed to deal with the matter

on merits, it would be appropriate to decide the applications of

the two interveners. 21. An Intervention Application has been filed by Mr Arun

Kumar Agarwal praying that he should be impleaded as a

respondent in the appeal and that copies of the memo of appeal

and other papers should be supplied to him. The Intervener has

also prayed that this Tribunal should ultimately direct SEBI to

reexamine the matter in the light of the assertions made in the

Intervention Application. 22. The Intervener Arun Kumar Agarwal contends that he

is a pro bono lawyer taking up causes of economic injustice to

the people of the country as enshrined in the Constitution. He

has taken up the challenge in the Enron project, in the iron ore

scam, in the 2G scam and other ponzi schemes. The Intervener

further contends that he is involved with SEBI and appellant

No.1 in five High Courts where the matters are pending. It was

contended that Intervener had applied for a copy of the

investigation report, but SEBI has refused to supply. It was

contended that there are glaring omissions in the investigation

report which has led underreporting of the unlawful gains made

by appellant No.1. According to the Intervener the unlawful

gains should have been Rs.3500 crores instead of Rs.513 crore as

computed in the impugned order. It was contended that SEBI

has made a shoddy investigation against the appellants and

have deliberately not been charged with insider trading. In fact,

SEBI and appellant No.1 are in collusion and are keen that the

investigation report should not come out in the public domain.

It was urged that if the investigation report is placed, the

Tribunal would find that there are glaring omissions in the

investigation report. It was urged that since SEBI has conducted -21- a shoddy investigation and has not investigated the price

manipulation between the period September to October, 2007

when the price of the shares of RPL increased from Rs.66 to

Rs.295. It was contended that the shortcoming in the

investigation can be redressed by the Tribunal inasmuch as the

Tribunal has coextensive powers as that of SEBI. It was further

contended that SEBI has abysmal track record of conducting

investigation. In the instant case, criminal investigation has not

been recommended by SEBI. The Intervener, who has appeared

in person, thus contended that in view of the decision of the

Supreme Court in Clariant International Limited & anr. Vs.

SEBI, (2004) 8 SCC 524 the error of fact can be corrected. Since

the price manipulation was not investigated by SEBI, this

Tribunal having coextensive power should direct SEBI to re-

investigate the matter especially relating to price manipulation

and the unlawful gains made by appellant No.1. It was also

contended that appellant Nos. 2 to 13 were the agents of

appellant No.1 and they had inside information which fact

should also be investigated. Since the same was not done, this

Tribunal should remit the matter to SEBI to conduct

reinvestigation in the matter. 23. Another Intervener Shailesh Mehta has filed an

Intervention Application praying that he should also be

provided copies of the papers and proceedings of the Tribunal

and that appeal filed by the appellants should be dismissed on

the ground that fraud has been played by the appellants upon

the Tribunal. The intervener has also prayed that appropriate

direction should be issued to initiate criminal proceedings

against the appellants for concealing material facts and further

this Tribunal should direct SEBI to conduct further investigation

and also annul all the trades which took place from 1/6/2007 to

31/12/2007 and that SEBI should refund the money lost by the

investors during the period in question in the scrip of RPL It

was asserted that intervener is a minority shareholder in

appellant No.1 company holding 38 shares. The intervener

contended that wrongdoers are in control of the company and

appeal filed by them is, therefore, not maintainable and should

be dismissed as such. It was contended that a fraud has been

played against the minority shareholder and, therefore, this

Tribunal should protect the minority shareholders and that the

applicant should be allowed to intervene in the appeal. -23- 24. The Intervener contended that one of the appellants,

namely appellant No.8 - Motech Software Pvt. Ltd. could not

have filed an appeal as his name was struck off by the Registrar

of Companies, Mumbai from the record of the ROC. Since it is

no longer an existing company, no appeal could have been filed

by a non-existing company. It was asserted that even SEBI could

not have passed an order against the non-existing company. On

this, it was contended that this crucial fact was neither brought

to the knowledge of SEBI nor to this Tribunal and, therefore, for

concealment of this material fact, the appeal should be dismissed

and criminal prosecution should be launched against the

appellants. 25. It was categorically made clear to the two interveners that

they cannot be impleaded as parties to the appeal but they

would be heard as Interveners. Accordingly, the two Interveners

were heard at length. The said Interveners have filed their

written submissions. Insofar as Arun Kumar Agarwal, the

submissions made by him and in his written submissions is the

same as stated in his Intervention Application which has been

stated hereinabove. However, Shailesh Mehta in his written

submission has stated the following facts:- Further, on account of issuance of the public issue and

generation of money, there was no need for appellant

no.1 to sell shares for the purpose of augmenting

income for said projects. It was contended that

combined appeal filed by appellant no.1 and other

entities was not maintainable as one of the appellants

had become a dead company. It was contended that

appellant No.1 and SEBI are in collusion and that SEBI

deliberately did not investigate the matter relating to

insider trading for more than a year and it is only when

the Parliament raised a question that SEBI investigated

the matter which was conducted in a shoddy manner.

It was contended that investigation of price

manipulation should have been conducted against the -25- appellant No.1 and appellant Nos. 2 to 13 who were

using pump and dump mechanism by artificially

raising price of the shares of RPL. It was contended

that the rise of price of shares of the RPL from Rs.66 to

Rs.295 should have been investigated which would

have clearly indicated that the price manipulation was

for a vested purpose. It was further contended that

unless some big politician makes a complaint to SEBI

only then an investigation is made, otherwise SEBI does

not act or investigate on the complaints made by

ordinary investors. It was further stated that

investigation made by SEBI is only to please the

political masters. The Intervener further submitted that

he has no personal interest in SEBI and is doing pro

bono to put forward the cause of the investors who

have lost moneys on account of insider trading done by

appellant No.1. The Intervener contended that the rule

of law must prevail and that the Tribunal should

intervene in the matter relating to price manipulation

done by appellant No.1 which should be thoroughly

investigated under supervision of the Tribunal. -26- 26. On the other hand, the appellants have vehemently

opposed the Intervention Applications contending that the

present appeal is a continuation of the proceedings passed by

SEBI. The Interveners were not a party in the proceedings before

SEBI and thus, cannot be made a party in the appeal filed by the

appellants. It was contended that the Interveners are not

necessary parties and their applications should be summarily

rejected. It was further contended that the appeal cannot be

treated as a ‚public interest litigation‛ which the Interveners are

trying to project. It was urged that the allegations made in the

Intervention Applications are beyond the scope of the appeal. It

was contended that baseless allegations are being made against

the appellants as well as against SEBI which should not be

allowed by this Tribunal and that the Tribunal must protect the

corporate industry and its reputation from such Interveners

making such slanders / wild allegations without any basis and

without any evidence. It was contended that the Interveners are

acting as a super regulators over and above SEBI projecting

that SEBI is incompetent and, therefore, the matter should be

reinvestigated under the aegis of this Tribunal. It was contended

that the Interveners are misusing the process of the court and are -27- only playing to the gallery. Their Intervention Applications are

patently misconceived and should be rejected. 27. At the outset, the contention made by one of the

Interveners that he is a minority shareholder and is adversely

affected by the investigation and by the fraud committed by the

wrongdoers who are in majority of and in control of the

appellant No.1 and that the appeal would adversely affect the

interest of the minority shareholders, in our opinion, is without

any merit. We find that adverse orders have already been

passed against appellant No.1 and the validity of that order has

to be tested on the basis of grounds set out in the appeal filed by

the appellants. It is for the company to address the merits of the

case and not by the shareholders. Further, the appeal has been

filed by the appellants against the order of SEBI. It is for SEBI to

defend its orders by raising all relevant contentions as it deems

fit. Therefore, the applicants who were not parties before SEBI

have no locus standi to contend that they should be impleaded as

a party / respondent. Since they are not necessary parties, their

plea that they should be impleaded as a respondent cannot be

accepted and is rejected. 28. However, as an Intervener we have allowed the said

Interveners to address the Tribunal in the interest of justice. In Saraswati Industrial Syndicate Ltd. vs. Commissioner of

Income Tax Haryana, Rohtak (1999) 3 SCC 141, the Supreme

Court held that an Intervener is only entitled to address the

arguments in support of one or the other side, meaning thereby

that the Intervener could either support the impugned order or

oppose the impugned order. Further, the Intervener cannot

raise fresh grounds or ask the Tribunal to investigate such

matters which is not the subject matter of dispute or by which it

would enlarge the scope of the appeal which was not part of the

show-cause notice. 29. In this regard, one has to distinguish between a public

interest litigation and a statutory appeal arising against the order

passed by the Adjudicatory Authority under an Act. In the

instant case, we find that the two Interveners have raised

questions which are beyond the scope of the appeal. Their

contention that the matter should be reinvestigated as SEBI has

done a shoddy job and that there should be a probe with regard

to the price manipulation in the shares of the scrip of RPL which

rose from Rs.65 to Rs.295 or the fact that the minority -29- shareholders are being oppressed because of the

mismanagement by the majority shareholders of appellant No.1

company, are questions which are beyond the pale jurisdiction

of this Tribunal. Such issues raised by the two Interveners in

their Intervention Applications and which have also been stated

in their written submissions are outside the scope of the appeal

and cannot be entertained. 30. Reliance has been made by the Interveners to a decision of

the Supreme Court in Clariant International Limited vs. SEBI ,

(2004) 8 SCC 524 wherein the Supreme Court held that the

powers of the Tribunal are not fettered and that the Tribunal

exercises all the jurisdiction as that of the Board (SEBI). The

Supreme Court held: Integration of power by vesting legislative, executive
 and judicial powers in the same body, in future, may
 raise several public law concerns as the principle of
 control of one body over the other was the central
 theme underlying the doctrine of separation of powers. -30- 76. Our Constitution although does not incorporate the
 doctrine of separation of powers in its full rigour but it
 does make horizontal division of powers between the
 Legislature, Executive and Judiciary.[See Rai Sahib
 Ram Jawaya Kapur and Others Vs The State of Punjab ,
 AIR 1955 SC 549]. 77. The Board exercises its legislative power by making
 regulations, executive power by administering the
 regulations framed by it and taking action against any
 entity violating these regulations and judicial power by
 adjudicating disputes in the implementation thereof.
 The only check upon exercise of such wide ranging
 power is that it must comply with the Constitution and
 the Act . In that view of the matter, where an expert
 Tribunal has been constituted, the scrutiny at its end
 must by held to be of wide import. The Tribunal,
 another expert body, must, thus, be allowed to exercise
 its own jurisdiction conferred on it by the statute
 without any limitation.‛ 31. The Interveners, in the light of the observations made by

the Supreme Court in the aforesaid decision, contended that the

jurisdiction of this Tribunal is coextensive with that of SEBI and,

therefore, the power of investigation by SEBI could also be done

by the Tribunal and since SEBI failed to investigate the matter

properly, this Tribunal should intervene and direct SEBI to make

a fresh investigation under its supervision. 32. The submission of the Interveners are patently

misconceived and is a misreading of the aforesaid observations

made by the Supreme Court in paragraphs 74 to 77 in the -31- Clariant's judgment. Under Section 15T of the Act, an appeal

can be filed against an order made by Board or by the

Adjudicating Officer. Under Section 15T(4) the appellate

tribunal may ultimately pass orders confirming, modifying or

setting aside the order appealed against. The Supreme Court in

Clariant's judgment (supra) has clearly stated that the Tribunal

exercises all the jurisdiction as that of the Board. This,

observation of the Supreme Court was further clarified by the

Supreme Court itself in National Securities Depository Ltd. v.

SEBI (2017) 5 Supreme Court Cases 517 to the effect that the

appeal being a continuation of the proceedings before the Board,

the proceedings can only be quasi judicial in nature, namely that

the appeal is only against the quasi judicial order of the

Adjudicatory Authority. Other administrative orders/circulars

are not under the purview of an appeal before the Tribunal. 33. In the light of the aforesaid, direction to reinvestigate the

matter because something has been left out in the investigation

does not come within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal. The

Tribunal is also confined to consider the scope of the appeal

within the four corners of the allegations set out in the show-

cause notice pursuant to which the allegations culminated in a -32- finding in the impugned order. The appeal being a continuation

of the adjudicatory proceedings is only confined to the validity

and legality of the impugned order which has to be tested on the

basis of the grounds set out in the memo of appeal. Thus, in our

opinion, the scrutiny which the Tribunal is required to make is

limited only to the veracity of the finding given in the impugned

order as challenged by the appellants in the grounds set out in

the memo of appeal. The reliefs sought by the Interveners as set

out in their Intervention Applications and in their written

submissions are beyond the scope of the memo of appeal. They

are neither supporting the appellants nor supporting the SEBI

and, as held in Saraswati Industrial Syndicate Ltd. (supra), the

Interveners can only address arguments in support of the

appellant or of the respondent and cannot enlarge the scope of

the appeal. Thus, upon consideration, we are of the opinion that

the Intervention Applications made by the Interveners are

patently misconceived and are rejected. The submissions made

and the reliefs sought cannot be granted and are rejected. 34. Sri Harish Salve, the learned Senior Counsel for the

appellants stated that all the trades in the cash segment and in

the Nov 2007 RPL Futures were conducted in an orderly manner -33- which was genuine and legal. Considering that a large quantity

of RPL shares were to be sold the appellants ensured that the

integrity of the market and the interest of the investors and

minority shareholders were protected and ensured that there

was no knee jerk reaction in the market on account of selling

large quantities of RPL shares. It was urged that the price of RPL

shares were rising. In Sept 2007 the price was Rs 150 per share

which peaked to Rs 271.70 per share on 31.10.2007. It was urged

that the reports of Goldman Sach, Kotak and Morgan Stanley

issued during the period of Sept 2007 to Oct 2007 reported that

the price of RPL was overvalued, and accordingly, it was

decided to sell 5% of RPL shares in order to maximize the return

to RIL shareholders. 35. Shri Salve contended that accordingly the 12 agents of RIL

took short positions in the derivative market in Nov 2007 RPL

futures as a hedge considering the fact that there was an

underlying exposure of RPL shares to be sold in the cash

segment which would expose the risk of loss due to price

movement, especially when large quantities of RPL shares were

to be sold in the cash segment. 36. It was contended that the test of whether a future

transaction is for hedging or for speculation hinges on whether

there already existed a related commercial position which is

exposed to the risk of loss due to price movement. It was urged

that on 01.11.2007, RIL had an underlying exposure to sell 5% of

RPL shares which worked out to 22.5 Cr shares which fact is not

disputed by the company. Further, selling large quantities on the

Stock Exchange would definitely dip the price and thus there

was an existing risk of loss due to price fluctuations. The learned

senior counsel thus contended that the circumstances existed for

the appellants 2 to 12 to take a hedge by taking short position in

Nov 2007 RPL Future on the sales side by placing half the

quantity as a hedge and leaving the balance as unhedged. Sri

Salve contended that this strategy made sense because the sale

price for half of the quantity got locked in. It was contended that

if the RPL share price went upwards, the unhedged price

quantity would realize such higher price in the cash segment. On

the other hand, if the RPL shares went down below the price

fixed under hedging, the hedged quantity would realize a higher

price. It was thus urged that the hedging done was to safeguard -35- the interest of the shareholders as well as of the investors and

the hedging done was perfectly valid and genuine. 37. The learned senior counsel further submitted that where

the liquidity of the shares is volatile and selling a large quantity

of the shares would cause a disturbance and would fluctuate

the price considerably, RIL decided to use this segment (namely

Futures) since the trading and liquidity in this segment was

higher. In this regard, the learned senior counsel placed

relevance on Annex 2 and 3 of Vol III of the Compilation of

Documents to drive home the point that trading in the Futures

segment was more than in the cash segment during the last

week of Oct 2007 and also in Nov 2007. This was therefore

another reason to take short position in the Nov 2007 RPL

Futures during 1st to 6th of Nov 2007 so that the impact was

minimized when shares were sold in the cash segment. It was

submitted that the 12 agents took net short positions of 9.92 Cr

shares of RPL in an orderly manner over a period of 4 trading

days which constituted a miniscule 8% of the total trades in the

Nov 2007 RPL Futures. The learned senior counsel further

submitted that the price of RPL had touched a high of Rs 294 on

01.11.2007 and there was nothing to stop RIL from offloading its -36- shares from 1st Nov onwards. It was contended that if that was

done RIL would have realized more money. However, the

appellants created the hedge positions first between 1st to 6th

Nov 2007 and thereafter sold shares in the cash segment from 6th

to 29th of Nov 2007 even though during this period the prices

had fallen from the peak price of Rs 294/- per share. 38. The learned senior counsel pointed out that between 6 Nov

to 29 Nov 2007, RIL sold 20.29 Cr RPL shares in the cash

segment of NSE and BSE out of which 2.25 Cr shares were sold

in the last half hour at market price. It was contended that the

sale of 20.29 Cr shares in the cash segment was not sold in a

single day but over a period of 11 trading days in Nov 2007 even

though nothing stopped RIL from selling all the shares in a

single day. It was urged that selling all the shares on a single day

would have resulted in the price of the share to fall drastically

which in turn would have fetched a higher return in the future

segment. However, according to the learned senior counsel, the

same was not done and the shares were sold over 11 trading

days in an orderly manner and to ensure that such sales did not

disturb the market integrity. The learned senior counsel urged

that the 12 agents squared off 1.95 Cr RPL shares in the Futures -37- segment by making purchases between 7 Nov to 28 Nov 2007.

The balance 7.97 Cr shares were closed out on 29.11.2007 at the

settlement price. Sri Salve contended that physical delivery of

the shares were not allowed in the futures segment otherwise

RIL would have delivered 9.92 Cr shares at the hedged price and

would have made more gains than it did. Since, physical

delivery were prohibited at that stage, the short positions taken

in the futures segment had to be cash settled after squaring off or

closing out on the last day of settlement. 39. The learned senior counsel thus contended that the trades

made by appellants in the futures segment as well as in the cash

segment were bonafide trades and were not speculative, or

fraudulent or manipulative as held by the WTM. The learned

senior counsel submitted that a bonafide hedge was made in the

futures segment and that the WTM committed an error in

holding that the trades done in the futures segment was not a

valid hedge. It was contended that the finding given by the

WTM on this aspect was wholly untenable and unsustainable. 40. In so far as the cash segment was concerned, it was urged

by Shri Salve, that there is no law, or requirement under the -38- SEBI laws to disclose an entity's intention to sell the shares in

the open market. No such disclosure is required. In fact, on the

other hand, if an entity disclosed its intention to sell the shares, it

would be looked with suspicion. 41. The learned senior counsel further submitted, but not

vehemently, contending that the first Show Cause Notice was

only against RIL and there was no allegation of fraud and only

alleged manipulative activities by RIL to earn Rs 513 Cr.

However, based on the replies given by RIL, a second Show

Cause Notice was issued on the same facts not only against RIL

but also against the 12 agents of RIL alleging massive short

positions taken by the 12 agents. It was urged that the Show

Cause Notice was on account of bias and prejudice on the part of

SEBI against the appellants motivated solely on account of

complaints made against them for vested reasons. 42. Shri Salve contended that the issues which arise for

consideration can be narrowed down as under. (i) Whether the explanation given by RIL on taking

 hedging positions was satisfactory? (ii) Whether the appointment of the 12 agents by RIL

 by which RIL took positions in excess of the client

 wise position limits constituted fraudulent or

 manipulative trade practice or was it only violative

 of the circulars? (iii) Whether the action of RIL in indulging in selling

 RPL shares in the last 30 minutes of the closing day

 of 29.11.2007 was done deliberately to depress the

 market price of the scrip in order to gain on the

 short positions held by the 12 agents in Nov 2007

 RPL Futures? 43. It was urged that the finding of the WTM that the sale of

2.25 Cr shares in the last ten minutes of the trading was done

deliberately to depress the price in order to make gains on the

7.97 Cr shares outstanding positions in the Nov 2007 RPL

Futures which was fraudulent and manipulative under the

PFUTP Regulation was based on surmises and conjectures. The

learned counsel contended that the aforesaid finding was based

on the following reasons:- 44. The learned senior counsel submitted that there was no

fraudulent or manipulative tactics adopted by RIL. RIL had 4.46

Cr shares yet to be sold in the cash segment. The market price on

29.11.2007 rose from Rs 193.80 per share to Rs 224.90 per share.

RIL had last sold the shares on 23rd Nov 2007 at Rs 210 per share.

Since then the price had gone down below Rs 210 per share to a

low of Rs 193.80 per share. Thus when the price rose to Rs 224.90

per share during the last 10 minutes of trading, RIL exited the

market at this stage and tried to sell off the remaining shares but

could only sell 2.25 Cr shares out of 4.46 Cr shares. Selling shares

in the last 10 min was not a crime and, in any case cannot be

termed fraudulent or manipulative. 45. Shri Salve future contended that there is no embargo upon

an investor to sell his shares below the Last Traded Price. In the

cash segment trading is done on screen based trading system of

the Stock Exchanges where a seller or a buyer has the benefit of

not only viewing the Last Traded Price but also the quantity as

well as the price at which buy or sell orders have been placed on

the screen. It was submitted that if there were not sufficient

number of buy orders at the Last Traded Price (LTP), it would be

open to the investor to sell his chunk of shares below the LTP. It

was contended that selling shares below the LTP could be

viewed with suspicion but under no circumstances such sales

made below LTP could be termed as fraudulent or manipulative.

It was contended that the sales made by RIL were genuine sales

followed by delivery of shares in the cash segment. Such sales

can never be termed as fraudulent or manipulative. The price for

sale of shares was placed below LTP on account of insufficient

demand. The finding of the WTM that the market had sufficient

depth to absorb all RIL sales orders was not based on any

documentary evidence. Such bald finding is based on surmises

and conjectures. Selling shares below the LTP cannot be termed

as manipulative. 46. It was urged that the WTM committed a manifest error in

treating the sales made by RIL in the last ten minutes as

manipulative and a malpractice on the ground that 12 out of 19

times, the sale orders were placed below the LTP. It was urged

that between 3:21:40 p.m. and 3:28:55 p.m. RIL placed 19 sell

orders out of which 12 orders were placed below LTP. These sale

orders below LTP were not fully sold. The learned senior

counsel thus suggested that the price quoted by RIL though it

was lower than LTP was still too high as there was not enough

demand to absorb the sell orders placed by RIL. It was urged

that 2.25 Cr shares were sold in an orderly manner though 19

trades and the sale price offered every time were reasonable. To

elucidate this, the learned senior counsel submitted that; a) At 3:21:40 p.m., RIL placed 20 lac sell order of

 shares at Rs 222/- per share against the LTP of 224.70.

 Despite this low price, 3.5 lacs shares out of 20 lac

 shares were not sold. This showed that demand did

 not exist at Rs 222/- per share nor at LTP of 224.70.

 the demand existed at prices lower than Rs 222/- per

 share -43- b) At 3:22:55 p.m., RIL placed an order of 10 lac shares

 at Rs 220/- per share against LTP of Rs 219.70/-. The

 sell order was more than the LTP. Only 1.5 lac shares

 were sold. This showed that demand was only at

 lower prices. c) At 3:23:53 p.m., LTP was Rs 219.50/-, RIL places sell

 order for 8.33 lakh shares at Rs 219, i.e. 50 paisa less

 than LTP. In spite of offering a lower price than LTP,

 5.71 lac shares remained unsold showing demand

 only at lesser price. d) At 3:24:33 p.m., LTP was Rs 218.55/-, RIL placed

 order of 10 lac shares above LTP at Rs 220/- per

 share. No shares were sold thereby indicating that

 there was no demand. e) At 3:24:26 p.m., LTP was Rs 218.90/-, RIL placed

 order for 30 lac shares at Rs 218/- per share, i.e. 90

 paisa less than LTP. Only 8 lac shares were sold and

 22 lac shares remained unsold. This showed that

 there were not many buyers at LTP. 47. It was thus urged from the above that what RIL did was

only to match the prices at which demand existed. The sale price -44- offered were reasonable and given the circumstances, even

though at some stage, sell orders were below LTP, the same was

not manipulative nor a malpractice. It was thus contended that

matching the demand in terms of price and quantity was not a

manipulation. It was urged that merely because RIL had placed

sell orders below the LTP it cannot automatically lead to a

conclusion that RIL was manipulating the price of the scrip nor

did it lead to an artificial depression of the share price. 48. Shri Dwarkads as well as Shri Salve contended that the

appointment of 12 agents which took positions in the Futures

segment was valid and in accordance with the circulars. The

finding of the WTM that the positions taken by the 12 agents on

behalf of RIL constitute a fraudulent or manipulative trade

practice was patently erroneous. It was contended that none of

the 12 agents exceeded the prescribed position limit. The finding

of the WTM that taking position limit by the 12 agents was a

well orchestrated scheme to defeat the position limits as per the

circular was wholly erroneous. The finding of the WTM that it

was done deliberately to take advantages of the sharp decline in

price of the shares in the cash segment which was expected to be

triggered by the proposed sale in the cash segment and was -45- therefore fraudulent is based on surmises and conjectures. It was

urged that there has been no fraudulent trades done by the

appellant nor violated Section 12 A (1) to (3) of SEBI Act and/or Regulation 3 and 4 of PFUTP Regulation. 49. It was further contended that the finding of the WTM that

the 12 agents were required to disclose the principal agency

relationship with RIL was patently erroneous in as much as

there was no requirement either under the Act or the

Regulations to disclose such fact. The finding that RIL could not

authorize the 12 agents when the principal (RIL) itself lacked the

authority to do such act was erroneous in as much as the

circulars did not prohibit RIL to do such acts, viz. appointing 12

agents. 50. The learned senior counsel submitted that the position

limit in derivative contracts prescribed by the Stock Exchanges

and by SEBI as per the circulars of 2001 were very clearly

applicable to a customer/client individually. The circulars did

not prohibit customer/client wise position limits to be

aggregated for a common beneficiary, namely RIL, since each of

the 12 agents were different clients/customer as per the circulars. -46- It was contended that the position limit circulars have

consciously omitted ‚individually or together with its group‛ or

‚in concert with each other‛. 51. It was further contended that SEBI circular dt 28.07.1999

relates to ‚Index based futures and options‛ in which no client

wise position limits were fixed for index based derivatives.

However, a self disclosure scheme was mandated for disclosing

the positions of persons acting in concert if it exceeds 15% of the

Open Interest. It was thus contended that even under the 1999

SEBI circular, there was no prohibition for persons to act in

concert. Acting in concert was not a violation. Only a disclosure

was required where the intention was to rope in persons acting

in concert. This was, however done away in the subsequent

position limit circulars which specifically provided

client/customer wise position limits. It was also contended that

the circulars did not envisage aggregation of position limits as is

clear from the model client broker agreement prescribed for

derivatives segment. The learned senior counsel stressed that

after 2007, the Stock Exchanges amended the model client broker

agreement which included a clause, namely, that a

client/customer acting alone or in concert with others, directly or -47- indirectly hold and control in excess of the permitted limits and

shall not exercise a long or short position in excess of the

prescribed limits. The learned senior counsel, thus urged that the

model agreement applicable in 2007 clearly showed that neither

the bye laws nor the client member agreement provided for

aggregation of limits of a group of persons acting in concert. 52. Shri Salve vehemently contended that the finding of the

WTM to the effect that the positions taken by RIL were not

genuine hedge and were taken only to take advantage of the

large dip in the share price of RPL once 22.5 Cr shares of RPL

were sold in the cash market is patently misconceived and is

based on surmises and conjectures. The finding of the WTM that

short positions taken by the 12 agents were only to reap huge

profit by cornering future position limits beyond the permissible

limit is not based on any sound reasoning. The finding that RIL

was required to have a hedging policy is patently erroneous in

as much as there was no rule/regulation/circular which

mandated any company to formulate a hedging policy. The

accounting standards came much later and reliance on such

accounting standards which did not exist on the date when the

transactions took place indicates total non application of mind -48- by the WTM. It was urged that the WTM committed a manifest

error in holding that non compliance of hedging accounting

norms takes away the character of a hedge and renders the

trades not only speculative but also fraudulent. It was further

urged that the WTM committed an error in holding that the RPL

Futures should be closed simultaneously with the sale of the

shares in the cash segment when there was no such requirement.

On the other hand, the learned senior counsel relied upon Table

in Vol 3 to show that from 15.11.07 onwards, the hedge positions

were in excess of the cash market sales, namely, the open

positions remained 'naked' until the closing on 29.11.07. The

learned senior counsel urged that the finding that RIL cornered

huge position in Nov 2007 RPL Futures which was more than

the permissible limit available to an individual client and thus

made unlawful gains was based on wrong interpretation of the

circulars. 53. The learned senior counsel urged that the transactions

undertaken by RIL in Nov 2007 RPL Futures was a hedging

strategy to hedge the proposed sale of 22.50 Cr RPL shares in the

cash segment was bonafide and was not an afterthought as held

by the WTM. 54. Shri Salve contended that SEBI Rules and Regulation does

not prohibit a potential seller in the cash segment from taking

positions in F&O segment and thus, further submitted that the

WTM fell in error in holding that the Nov 2007 RPL Futures

were speculative transactions with the sole view to make

unlawful gains by the expected drop in the price of RPL shares

in the cash market. It was urged that absence of a hedging policy

cannot lead to the transaction being manipulative or fraudulent.

The learned senior counsel contended that a transaction in the

F&O segment is a hedge if there is an underlying exposure/risk

which in the instant case was existing, namely the sale of 22.5 Cr

shares in the cash segment. Thus the hedge was neither

speculative nor ceased to become a hedge. It was contended that

there is no rule/regulation/circular stipulating that throughout

the period of hedge, the open positions should be equal to the

underlying risk. In fact the F&O segment rules clearly allow

either closure of position by purchases in the F&O segment or

allow open position to be closed out on the last day which in the

instant case was done bonafidely. It was thus contended that the

short position taken by the 12 agents was a genuine, valid and a

bonafide hedge. 55. Shri Salve contended that the finding on fraud is

misplaced. Before a person can be found guilty of fraud, the

element of inducement must exist which in the instant case was

non existing. The learned senior counsel submitted that there is

no evidence on record to hold that the appellants are guilty of

‚inducement‛. In the instant case all the trades in the Nov 2007

RPL Futures were undertaken at market prices which only

formed 8% of the total trades. Further, the entire trade was made

on screen based trading where the identity of the buyer and

seller was not known to each other. Thus the question of

inducing any person does not arise. 56. The learned senior counsel further urged that even though

the appellants did not exceed the position limits, but assuming

without admitting that the appellants exceeded the position

limits in violation of the circulars, at best, it would only invite an

imposition of penalty under SCR Act but under no

circumstances it would be construed to violate PFUTP

Regulation or SEBI Act . The learned senior counsel submitted

that the exercise of powers under section 11B was not only

excessive and unwarranted but also illegal. 57. The learned senior counsel submitted that the impugned

order was based on no evidence and was liable to be set aside. It

was submitted that the explanation to Sec 11 B of SEBI Act is

absolutely clear, namely, that the power to issue direction could

only arise when there is a contravention of the SEBI Act or the

Regulations framed thereunder. In the instant case, the appellant

have not violated any provision of the SEBI Act or any

Regulation framed thereunder. Violation of a circular is not

violation of the SEBI Act or the Regulation framed thereunder

and at best is a violation of SCR Act inviting a penalty, if any. It

was thus urged that the order of disgorgement under section 11B of SEBI Act was wholly illegal. 58. Shri Darius Khambatta, the learned senior counsel for SEBI

submitted that the findings arrived at by the WTM was based on

evidence and sound reasoning which requires no interference.

The learned senior counsel submitted that neither under SEBI

Act or under Regulation one party can corner 61.5% of Open

Interest on 6.11.07 and 93% of the trades on 29.11.07 in a scrip of

the Company. Such cornering of the shares is a fraud on the

system. It was contended that by employing and splitting the

trades across 12 agents, RIL had cornered 93% of open interest -52- position on 29.11.2007 in the RPL Futures and thus limited other

players from trading in the RPL Futures and therefore it was a

fraud on the stock market system. 59. Shri Khambatta submitted that appointing 12 agents by

RIL in order to take up short positions in RPL Futures was in

clear violation of the circulars. It was submitted that the

agreements entered by RIL with the 12 agents were identical. All

profit or losses was to be borne by RIL. The agreement further

provided that any transaction executed by the agent was

required to be approved by RIL. The strategy adopted by RIL

was that through the 12 agents, the trades could be executed at

higher levels without disturbing the client wise position limits

provided by the circular dt 7.11.2001 and 2.11.2001. 60. It was submitted that as the SEBI and NSE circulars dt

2.11.2001 and 7.11.2001 imposed client wise position limits in

respect of single stock futures. These circulars were in fact issued

as part of ‚risk containment measures‛ and ‚to deter and detect

concentration of positions and market manipulation‛. As per

these circulars, the gross open position of a customer/client

should not exceed the higher of 1% of the free float market -53- capitalization (in terms of number of shares) or 5% of the open

interest in the derivative. Shri Khambatta submitted that as per

these circulars, the maximum permissible client wise position

limit on 6.11.2007 was 101 lakh shares as per Table (iv)-a of the

Show Cause Notice and on 29.11.2007, the maximum

permissible client wise position limit was 90 lac shares as is clear

from Table (iv)-b of the Show Cause Notice. It was submitted

that if RIL was to enter the F&O segment and take short

position, the max position limit could not exceed 101 lac shares

on 6.11.2007 or 90 lac shares on 29.11.2007. But by appointing 12

agents, RIL clandestinely accumulated position limits far in

excess of the permissible limit available to a single

client/customer. The accumulation of 992.2 lac shares by the 12

agents on behalf of RIL on 6.11.07 was in gross violation of the

position limits available to single client/customer and thus was

manipulative and fraudulent. 61. Shri Khambatta submitted that in law, the acts of the

agent have the same consequences as though the acts had been

done by the principal himself. Therefore, the futures contracts

executed by RIL through its agents have the same legal effect as

though they were executed by RIL itself. The fundamental -54- principle of agency law enunciated in Section 226 of the Contract

Act, 1872 which provides that ‚Contracts entered into through

an agent, and obligations arising from acts done by an agent,

may be enforced in the same manner, and will have the same

legal consequences, as if the contracts had been entered into and

the acts done by the principal in person.‛ The learned senior

counsel contended that the principle that what is prohibited

directly cannot be done indirectly by engaging another. In this

regard, reliance was made on a decision of a Division Bench of

the Calcutta High Court in Sukumari Gupta vs Dhirendra Nath

Boy Chowdhury , 1941 SCC OnLine Cal 244 , wherein the Court

has aptly described an agent as a ‚a mere conduit pipe-a mere

connecting link-in bringing about a contractual relation between

the principal and third parties‛. Reliance was also made on a

decision of the Supreme Court in Firm of Pratapchand Nopaji

vs Firm of Kotrike Venkatta Shetty (1975) 2 SCC 208, the

Supreme Court has held that ‚what cannot be done directly

cannot be done indirectly by engaging another<‛and in Jagir

Singh vs Rambir Singh AIR1979 SC 381, the Hon'ble Supreme

Court has held that ‚what may not be done directly cannot be -55- allowed to be done indirectly, that would be an evasion of the

statute.‛ 62. It was thus submitted that where several clients or

customers act on behalf of one common beneficiary, separate

position limits would not apply to each of them. It was urged

that since RIL could not have crossed the position limits in its

individual capacity, if would not employ agents to indirectly

overcome the position limits. The learned senior counsel

strenuously urged that the concept of ‚acting in concert‛ was

illusory and not applicable in the instant case as it was a case of

principal and agents. Once the principal-agency relationship is

accepted, the limits prescribed in the position limit circulars will

apply to RIL for acts done by its agents. It was contended that

the acts of all the 12 agents are the acts of RIL itself. The

principle of ‚persons acting in concert‛ was therefore irrelevant. 63. Shri Khambatta contended that the appellant's contention

that the circulars merely triggered a disclosure requirement is

incorrect in as much as the language of the circular made it

absolutely clear that there was an explicit prohibition for

breaching the position limits. According to Shri Khambatta, the -56- sentence in the circular, namely ‚The gross open position across

all derivative contracts on a particular underlying of a customer/

client should not exceed the higher.....‛ clearly indicates a

prohibition from exceeding the position limits. The words

‚should not‛ is the same as ‚shall not‛ and therefore clearly

mandatory and prohibitive as held by the Supreme Court in

Mannalal Khetan vs Kedar Nath Khetan (1972) 2 SCC 426. 64. Shri Khambatta, the learned senior counsel for SEBI

further submitted that the action of the 12 agents cornering

massive short positions in RPL Futures was a fraudulent act. It

was urged that an impression was given in the stock market that

large open positions were held by 12 entities instead of just RIL.

The amassing of open position by RIL was a manipulation of the

market by circumventing the circulars with brazenness and thus

misled the market. Therefore, RIL had breached the PFUTP

Regulation by manipulating the market. Such manipulation was

a fraudulent act violating Section 12A of SEBI Act read with Regulation 3 , 4(1) and 4(2)(e) of the PFUTP Regulation. The

learned senior counsel contended that once manipulation was

established, the investors were automatically induced and

therefore the contention of the appellants that there must be a -57- specific finding on inducement in order to establish fraud is

patently erroneous. In this regard, the learned senior counsel

relied upon a decision of the Supreme Court in Sebi vs Rakhi

Trading Pvt Ltd. , (2018) 13 SCC 753. It was thus contended that

once the factum of manipulation was established, no further

proof was required that the investors were induced and

consequently fraud is deemed to be established. The learned

senior counsel thus urged that violation of the circulars was also

a violation of the SEBI Act and its Regulations and the

contention of the appellant that circulars are not Rules or

Regulations under the SEBI Act is misconceived. The learned

senior counsel urged that once fraud is established, it becomes

immaterial whether or not position limits have been breached. The learned senior counsel submitted that the decision of the

Tribunal in Price Waterhouse & Co. vs SEBI (2019) SCC Online

SAT 165 was distinguishable and not applicable in the instant

case. 65. Shri Khambatta further submitted that the action of RIL in

dumping of 2.25 Cr shares in the last ten minutes of trading on

29.11.2007 was with the sole purpose to manipulate the

settlement price of the RPL Futures contracts. Such manipulation -58- amounted to a fraudulent act. The learned senior counsel

contended that on 29.11.2007, RPL scrip opened at Rs 193.80 and

at 3:00 p.m. rose to Rs 208.20 and thereafter rose to Rs 224.35 at

3:20 p.m. The learned senior counsel contended that the graph of

RPL share price during the last half hour showed that the price

was rising steadily. It was submitted that the continuous price

rise was not suiting RIL in as much as a rise in price of the RPL

shares in the cash segment would mean reduction in RIL's

realization on the open position in the RPL Futures. The learned

senior counsel, thus, submitted that in order to avert this

situation, RIL started dumping RPL shares in the cash segment

during the last 10 minutes of the trading. This dumping was

with a view to reverse the rising trend in RPL's share price. 66. It was further contended that between 3:21:40 and 3:28:55

p.m. RIL placed 17 sell orders for 2.43 Cr shares in which 12 out

of 17 orders were placed at prices lower than Last Traded Price

(LTP). As a result of placing sell orders below LTP, RIL managed

to reduce the price Rs 224.35 price per share to the last half hour

weighted average price to Rs 215.25 per share resulting RIL to

make higher profits on RPL Futures. The learned counsel

submitted that dumping of huge quantity of shares in the last 10 -59- min, in the absence of any rational explanation was clearly

manipulative and a fraud on the market, as it clearly influenced

the settlement price in the F&O segment. In the absence of any

plausible explanation, the WTM was justified in holding that the

dumping of large quantity of shares in the last 10 minutes was to

influence the settlement price in order to gain huge profits in the

F&O segment. The said act was purely with a malafide intention. The learned senior counsel submitted that the contention of RIL

that they were selling the shares in order to take advantage of

the higher price in the last 10 minutes of the trading was totally

erroneous. In fact the selling of the shares was only with the

intention to manipulate the market in order to bring the price

down. The learned senior counsel further stated that the action

of RIL in not selling any shares from 23rd to 29th Nov, 2007 also

speaks volumes by itself as on those days RIL could have got a

better price. The learned senior counsel placed reliance of

decision of this Tribunal in Sandeep Paul vs SEBI in which it

was held that factors such as volume of trading, percentage of

market share trade, timings of trades in the last half hour would

establish that the person had engaged in market manipulation. It

was thus urged that selling 2.25 Cr shares in the last 10 min -60- which led to determine the settlement price was sufficient to

establish market manipulation and thus a fraudulent act. 67. Shri Khambatta, the learned senior counsel lastly

contended that the defence of hedging adopted by RIL was

nothing but an afterthought to cover up the motive of making

speculative gains. Placing 9.92 Cr shares in the Futures Segment

was not a legitimate hedge in as much as RIL intention was to

corner futures positions and take advantage of the price dip in

the cash segment induced by RIIL itself. It was urged that the

appellants' contention that the transactions executed in the F&O

segment were hedge transactions since it expected that RPL

price would fall when shares were sold in the cash segment was

nothing but an afterthought. The learned senior counsel

contended that the short position taken by the 12 agents of RIL

was not a hedge transaction. 68. The learned senior counsel placed reliance on a decision of

the FB of the Gujarat High Court in Pankaj Oil Mills vs Comm .

of Income Tax, AIR 1978 Guj. 226 which distinguished hedging

from speculative transactions as ‚the genuine transactions

entered into for purposes of insuring against adverse price -61- fluctuations‛ and further held ‚in order to be genuine and valid

hedging contracts of sales, the total of such transactions should

not exceed the total stocks of the raw materials or the

merchandise on hand which would include existing stocks as

well as the stocks acquired under the firm contracts of

purchases.‛ 69. The learned senior counsel also placed reliance on a

decision of the Supreme Court of Canada in Ontario (Minister

of Finance) vs Placer Dome Canada Ltd, 2006 SCC Online Can

SC 20, which has explained the difference between hedging and

speculation in the following terms: 70. The learned senior counsel contended that there must be a

correlation in the quantities of shares exposed to market

fluctuations and the quantity of the hedge transaction

undertaken in the futures market. If the quantities in the futures

market exceed the quantity of shares actually exposed to market

fluctuations then the transaction would not be a genuine hedge. -62- Reliance was made of another decision of The Supreme Court of

Montana in Whorley vs Patton-Kjose Co., Inc. 90 Mont. 461 in

which it was held that: 71. On the aforesaid basis, Shri Khambatta submitted that the

unwinding of a hedge transaction has to be almost simultaneous

with the sale of the shares in the cash segment. Further, the

quantity of the hedge transaction unwound must be

substantially the same as the quantity of shares sold in the cash

segment. If the hedge transaction is not unwound

simultaneously and to the same extent as the sale in the cash

segment, then the transaction would cease to be hedge

transaction. 72. The learned senior counsel, thus submitted that: 73. The learned senior counsel contended that the transactions

undertaken by the 12 agents in the F&O segment can never be

treated as a hedge transaction for the following reasons; namely: b) Between 13th Nov 2007 to 15th Nov 2007, RIL sold

 total of 5.97 Cr RPL shares in the cash segment

 against which it unwound its short position only to

 the extent of 0.01 Cr shares i.e. on 15th Nov 2007

 [Vol. I/pg 148/Table- see Columns (7) and (4)]. As a

 result, RIL's volume in the F&O segment had

 exceeded the quantity of RPL shares left to sell by -65- 0.41 Cr RPL shares. In fact, from 15th Nov 2007

 onwards, RIL's position in the F&O segment

 continued to be in excess of the quantity of RPL

 shares it had left to sell. c) Further, 0.02 Cr shares were sold on 19th and 27th

 Nov in the Futures segment which is inconsistent

 with hedging. d) RIL did not unwind its positions even when RPL

 share prices in the Futures segment fell to a low of

 Rs 185.50 on 28.11.2007. e) On 29.11.2007 RIL had 2.2 Cr RPL shares for sale but

 did not execute any fresh futures transactions. In

 fact RIL sold 2.25 Cr shares in the cash segment and

 cash settled the entire outstanding positions of 7.97

 Cr shares in the Futures segment and did not enter

 into a fresh Futures contract of the balance 2.21 Cr

 shares. f) RIL had no hedging policy and the transaction in

 question was a ‚one off transaction‛ which was not

 part of the ordinary and regular business of RIL. -66- g) Reliance on RBI guidelines is misplaced in as much

 as ‚naked‛ hedge is only permitted by RBI for

 foreign exchange hedges and that too against a

 genuine exposure. h) The hedge position from 15.11.2007 onwards which

 exceeded the proposed sale makes it apparently

 clear that it was not a genuine hedge and was only

 intended to make speculative gains. 74. The learned senior counsel further contended that the

powers of the Tribunal are co-extensive with those of SEBI and

that the Tribunal can exercise its discretionary jurisdiction in the

same manner as exercised by SEBI. In this regard, the learned

senior counsel placed reliance on a decision of a Supreme Court

in Clariant International Ltd. and another vs SEBI (2004) 8 SCC 524. It was thus urged that SEBI rightly exercises the powers

under section 11B of the SEBI Act in directing disgorgement of

the amount on account of violation of the PFUTP Regulation and

Sec 12 A of SEBI Act . 75. Shri Salve, the learned senior counsel, in rejoinder

submitted that the decision of the Supreme Court in Clariant's -67- case (Supra) was distinguishable and not relevant to the issue in

hand. The decision in Clariant 's case was in the context of a

direction issued by SEBI with regard to payment of interest to

shareholders of a target Co. as compensation on account of

failure to make a public announcement under the Takeover

Code. The learned senior counsel placed reliance on a decision of

this Tribunal in Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. vs SEBI (2001)

SCC Online SAT 28 and LKP Securities Ltd V/s SEBI (2002)

SCC Online SAT 31 wherein it was held that a statutory order

cannot be supplemented by fresh reasons and that one cannot go

beyond the impugned order. 76. Shri Salve contended vehemently that the position limits

circulars have been issued under SCR Act and the Rules made

thereunder. The learned senior counsel submitted that assuming

without admitting that the position limits were breached it

cannot attract Regulation 3(b) of PFUTP Regulation. The learned

senior counsel submitted that the ingredient of 'fraud' was

missing in Regulation 3(b) . The learned senior counsel further

contended that the essential element of ‚inducement‛ in fraud is

required to be established which in the instant case was lacking.

It was thus urged that mere manipulation is not sufficient for -68- issuing a direction for disgorgement and that reliance on the

decision in Sandeep Paul 's case (supra) was totally misplaced. The learned senior counsel further submitted that the decision of

the Supreme Court in SEBI vs Rakhi Trading P Ltd. 2018 (13)

SCC 753 had no application to the present facts and

circumstances of the case. The learned senior counsel placed

reliance on the decision of this Tribunal in Price Waterhouse and

Co. wherein it was held that inducement was necessary as an

element to constitute fraud under the Regulation. 77. Shri Salve contended that the contention of SEBI that the

aggregate positions taken up by the 12 agents did not allow the

market players from entering the market and that such

concentration of position limits by appellants was a

manipulative and a fraud on the market was totally misplaced

and misconceived in as much as SEBI seems to be confused

between ‚market wide limits‛ and ‚open limits‛. It was

contended that on 06.11.2007, RIL had a position of 9.92 Cr,

thereby had an aggregate position of 61.15% of open interest in

Nov Futures Contract of RPL and 48.64% of open interest across

all derivatives contracts in RPL. Thus other market players had

51.36% of balance market wide limits when other players could -69- have taken. Similarly, on 29.11.2007, RIL had 40.13% of the open

interest across all derivatives contract in RPL are thus other

market players had approx 60% of market wide limits. It was

thus contended that the contention of SEBI that other players

could not enter the market was patently erroneous. 78. Shri Salve contended vehemently that there was no

violation of the circulars with regard to the position limits. It was

contended that the 1999 SEBI circular on ‚Index Futures‛ clearly

prescribed the disclosure requirement for persons acting in

concert. It was thus contended, that in the absence of such limits,

there was no bar on ‚persons acting in concert‛ and therefore

taking position limits by the 12 agents was not in violation of

position limits circulars. Thus the concept of persons acting in

concert was relevant and applicable and the contention of SEBI

that the concept of ‚persons acting in concert‛ was irrelevant

since the principal - agent relationship was established is

misplaced. 79. The learned senior counsel reiterated that there is no

provision in law which required RIL to disclose the existence of

the 12 agents. The learned senior counsel submitted that neither -70- there was any misrepresentation to the market nor any fraud

was played since the 12 agents did not corner the market. The

contention of SEBI that people trading with another person are

entitled to know how many positions have been taken by the

other person is misplaced. The learned senior counsel submitted

that there is no law which requires a trader to disclose in

advance the number of shares he intends to buy or sell. Further

there is no requirement that a trader must know whether a

person has exceeded his limit or not or whether the positions

were taken individually or in concert. On the contrary, in terms

of NSE (F&O segment) Trading Regulations, a trading member

is prohibited from disclosing the name and beneficial identity of

the client. 80. The learned senior counsel also pointed out that now the

NSE Model Client Broker Agreement has been amended which

includes an undertaking by the client that he is not acting in

concert with any other person. This requirement indicates that

Circular relied upon at the given point of time did not have the

requirement of disclosing persons ‚acting in concert‛. -71- 81. Shri Salve again reiterated that the Nov 2007 RPL Futures

trades were hedging transaction and there was no obligation for

RIL to make an announcement that they were entering into a

hedge transaction. The essential prerequisite of a valid hedge

was existing which was sufficient to hold that the transaction

were a valid hedge and thus the finding that these transactions

were manipulative and fraudulent was wholly erroneous. The

learned senior counsel reiterated that Regulation 3 (b) of PFUTP

Regulation was not applicable in the instant case in as much as

SEBI failed to establish ‚inducement‛ on the part of the

appellants. The learned senior counsel distinguished the cases

cited by SEBI and submitted that the said decisions had no

relevance to the facts and circumstances in the appeal in

question. 82. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties at

length. Before proceeding it would be appropriate to define a

few technical terms which are used in the impugned order as

well as in this order. These technical terms are defined in the

Regulations known as National Stock Exchange (Futures &

Options) Trading Regulations 2000. Reg. 1.3.19 defines derivative contracts as: 83. In order to deal with the issues raised, it is essential to first

deal with the transactions executed in the F&O segment, namely

whether such transactions were in the nature of hedging

transactions. Before we dwell into the nature of the transactions,

it is essential to understand the meaning of the word ‚hedge‛ or

‚hedging transactions‛. 84. Black's Law Dictionary (11th Edition) defines Hedging

Contract as ‚A contract of purchase or sale that amounts to

insurance against changing prices by which a dealer contracts to

buy or sell for future delivery the same amount of a commodity

as he or she is buying or selling in the present market.‛The

circular of NCDEX on Hedge Policy defines hedge as ‚a hedge is

a trade designed to reduce risk.‛ Further ‚a hedge is a futures

transaction or position that normally represents a substitute for

transactions to be made or positions to be taken at a later time

in a physical market.‛ A hedge transaction is therefore taking a

position either sale or purchase to reduce or extinguish a risk in

an existing underlying exposure. 85. In Pankaj Oil Mills V/s CIT, AIR 1978 Guj. 226, a Full

Bench of the Gujarat High Court held that a hedge contract is so

called because it enables the persons dealing with the actual

commodity to hedge themselves, i.e., to insure themselves

against adverse price fluctuations. The Full Bench further held that in order to be genuine and valid hedging contracts of sales,

the total of such transactions should not exceed the total stocks

of the merchandise. 86. On the other hand, ‚speculation‛ or ‚speculative

transactions‛ have not been defined under the SEBI Act and its

Regulations.‚ Speculation‛ as per Law Lexicon by P. Ramanatha

Aiyer, means ‚more or less risky investment of money for the

sake of, and in expectation of usually large profits.‛ Section 45(5) of the Income Tax Act 1961 defines ‛speculative transactions‛ as

under : 87. ‚Speculative transaction‛ means that unless the

transaction was settled by actual delivery or transfer of the

commodity, it would be a speculative transaction as held by the -75- Supreme Court in Jute Investment Co. vs I.T. Comm . W.B., AIR

1980 SC 483. Thus, transactions conducted in the F&O segment

are speculative transactions since the transactions are not settled

by actual delivery of shares. 88. Difference between hedging and speculation has been

explained in Ontario Minister of Finance V/s Placer Dome

Canada Ltd. 2006 SCC Online Can SC 20 as under: 89. L.C. Gupta Committee Report states: 90. From the aforesaid, the key elements of a hedge

transaction and speculative transaction can be culled out as

under: 91. Thus, from the aforesaid, it is clear that one of the

purposes for establishment of the F&O segment was hedging as

it was the most cost efficient way to insure against market risk.

Since at the relevant moment of time, physical delivery of the

goods was not permitted in the F&O segment, the transactions

done in the F&O segment was also a speculative transaction. The

test whether a transaction in the F&O segment is hedging or is

for speculation hinges on a crucial fact, namely, whether there

already existed a related commercial position which is exposed

to a risk of loss due to price movement. 92. In the instant case, the admitted facts, which are not

disputed by SEBI is, that a decision was taken by appellant no. 1

in its Boards meeting at 29.03.2007 to generate funds for

completion of various projects. The shares price of RPL was

rising. It rose from Rs 60 to Rs 150/- and was Rs 249.90 on

31.10.2007. In this backdrop, which is again not disputed, is that

a decision was taken to sell 5% of the shareholding in RPL which

roughly worked out to 22.5 Cr shares. The decision to offload the

shares was based on the analysis report of Goldman Sachs and

Kotak Institutional Securities of Sept/Oct 2007, which valued the

shares at Rs 150/- per share. Thus selling the shares in RPL was

justified by RIL. 93. It is a well known fact that selling 22.5 Cr shares in the

market would cause fluctuation in the price of the scrip which

would not in the interest of the investors. Selling such large

quantities of shares would make the price of the scrip to fall

significantly. Large quantity of shares cannot be sold on a single

day. The selling of the shares has to be sold over several trading

days. The dipping of the price would cause loss to the seller,

namely RIL. Thus selling large quantities of shares by RIL was

exposed to the risk of loss due to the price movement. Thus a -78- hedging transaction was undertaken since there was an

underlying exposure on which there was an existing risk. We

also find that circumstances existed for the appellant no. 2 to 12

to take a hedge by taking short positions in Nov. 2007 RPL

Futures on the sale side by placing half the quantity as a hedge

and leaving the balance as unhedged. Thus, in our opinion,

creation of short positions of 9.92 Cr RPL shares over a period of

four trading days was clearly a hedge transaction. We are

further of the opinion that by taking short position during 1st to

6th Nov 2007, the impact got minimized when shares were sold

in the cash segment. Looking from another angle, if the short

positions taken was not a hedge, there was nothing to stop the

appellants from off loading its shares from 6th Nov onwards. The

short positions were taken on the sales side at Rs 265.67 per

share. Table 1 & 2 of Vol 3 indicates that the weighted average

price on 07.11.2007 was Rs 219.21 in the cash segment and Rs

215.78 in the Futures segment. If the short positions were

squared off on 07.11.2007, the appellants would have made far

more than by holding it out till the end. Table 1 & 2 further

indicates that the prices kept on dipping and it would have been

easier for the appellants to square off the short positions and -79- make large profits. If speculation was the intention then

definitely the appellants would have squared off the short

positions between the 6th to 29th of Nov. But this was not the

case. The appellants had taken a hedge position against the

existing related commercial position which was exposed to the

risk of loss due to price movement. 94. Whether a transaction in the F&O segment is a hedge or

not is determined at the time the position is taken and not by

interpreting in hindsight some of the actions in the course of sale

in the cash segment and the closing out of positions. 95. The finding of the WTM that the Nov 2007 RPL Futures

was not a hedge because the Open Interest positions were not

closed simultaneously with the cash segment or that from 15

Nov 2007 onwards, the Open Interest's exceeded the quantity

remaining to be sold in the cash segment, or that between 1st to

6th Nov, the 12 agents took short position of 11.45 Cr and closed

out 1.53 Cr positions leading to a net short position of 9.92 Cr is

erroneous. A hedge not properly closed out at best can be

termed as an imperfect hedge. We are of the opinion that if there

was an imperfect hedge it does not mean that there was no valid -80- hedge nor can it lead to a presumption that the hedge was an

afterthought or that the trades were speculative or fraudulent. 96. Further, short positions are required to be closed out by

purchases. As per SEBI's policy existing at that time, physical

delivery was not allowed. Had physical delivery been allowed,

the appellants would have delivered the shares at Rs 265.67 per

share. Quantity equal to the sale made in the cash segment is

required to be made available in the Nov 2007. RPL Futures per

purchase depends on the market trend and sometimes a close

out may not happen on the same day and the sale may take

place the next day. Thus a perfect hedge of a simultaneous

closing of equal quantity may not happen. In any case, this by

itself does not make the transactions in the F&O segment as an

invalid hedge. The fact that on some days the hedge position

exceeded the balance quantities to be sold and that 7.97 Cr

shares were allowed to expire does not make the initial

transaction in the F&O segment as an invalid hedge. It is

impossible to analyze and find out whether it was done with

intent or there was an element of speculation. Assuming it to be

purely speculation, in our view, transactions done in the F&O

segment with the intention of speculation is not prohibited nor -81- can such speculation be termed as manipulation or fraudulent.

We are saying this, since physical deliveries in F&O segment

was not permitted and therefore, trading done in F&O segment

always had an element of speculation. We reiterate that what

starts as a hedge continues as a hedge irrespective of

imperfections. A perfect hedge is only possible when it is settled

by delivery. Thus any deviation from a perfect hedge cannot be

termed as an invalid hedge nor can it be termed as speculative

and therefore, fraudulent. If at the beginning it was a valid

hedge, the same does not become an invalid hedge merely

because Open Interest positions was not closed simultaneously

with the cash segment or that the Open Interest exceeded the

quantity remaining to be sold in the cash segment. At best a

valid hedge could become an imperfect hedge at a later point of

time but it cannot be called an invalid hedge. 97. Similarly, the purchase of 1.53 Cr shares between 1st Nov

2007 to 6th Nov 2007 are not speculative transactions since it was

to ensure compliance of the individual position limits of the 12

agents which was 0.91 Cr. We find that the purchase of 0.62 Cr

on 06.11.2007 was against the sale of 7 Cr shares made in the

cash segment on that day. Thus, in our view, there was no -82- unwinding of the futures position before the exposures were

reduced. 98. The WTM in para 4.A.18 of the impugned order has

explained the concept of hedging as under: 99. The word ‚predetermined‛ assumes importance when a

valid hedge is made, it is predetermined and the same does not

become invalid merely because at some point of time in future,

there is some variation. When a hedge is made the price is

locked which cannot be varied and remains locked till the

predetermined point of time fructifies. 100. The finding that sine appellant no. 1 did not have a

consistent accounting policy throughout the life of the hedge, the

transactions were not a valid hedge is patently erroneous and is

also misconceived. At the time when the appellants made the

transactions in Nov 2007, there was no hedging policy or

accounting policy framed by SEBI. Such policies came into

existence later. Thus, in our opinion, the appellants cannot be -83- ousted from a valid hedge merely because of not having a

hedging policy or accounting policy when none was required.

The WTM in para 4:A20 found that ‚hedge accounting norms is

not a legal requirement‛ and went on to hold that ‚non

compliance would take away the character of a hedge and

render it to be classified as trading or speculative position‛. In

our view once the WTM holds that a hedging policy was not a

legal requirement, it was not necessary for the WTM to proceed

any further. Such findings given by the WTM dwells into the

realm of conjectures and surmises without any legal basis. 101. The fact that there was no hedging policy, nor there was

no board resolution for hedging or that there were no accounting

standards followed, are all irrelevant. These policies came only

in existence in 2016 and thus reliance on these policies shows

complete non application of mind. 102. It must be understood that had physical deliveries been

allowed, RIL would have delivered the 9.92 Cr short positions. It

is worth mentioning that the stock exchange rules, progressively

from July 2018 made it mandatory for physical deliveries of

specified scrips in the F&O segment and significantly from -84- October 2019 onwards any outstanding short positions in any

scrip has to be mandatorily settled by physical delivery. There is

no closing out of outstanding positions which was the case in

2007. It cannot be denied that RIL would have simply made

physical delivery of 9.92 Cr shares on November 29, 2007 and

earned Rs 265.67 per share had physical deliveries been allowed

in 2007. 103. There is another aspect. What has been achieved by RIL

through the transactions undertaken in the November 2007 RPL

Futures? It is simple. RIL realized Rs 221 per share on the sale of

20.29 Cr shares in the cash segment. The hedges in the Nov 2007

RPL Futures helped RIL to realise an additional Rs 26 per share

on the 20.29 Cr shares, taking up the average realization to Rs 247. Nothing more. This realization of Rs 247 per share must be

looked at from the following perspective:- 104. The purchase of 1.53 Cr shares during the period Nov 1,

2007 to Nov 6, 2007 in the Nov 2007 RPL Futures are not -85- speculative transactions as has been suggested by the

respondent. The purchases on Nov 2, 2007 and Nov 5, 2007

aggregating to 0.91 Cr had to be done by one or more of the 12

agents to ensure compliance with the individual position limits.

This is evident from the table at Paragraph 4.A.26 of the

Impugned Order. The purchase of 0.62 Cr on Nov 6, 2007 is

against the sale of 7 Cr shares made in the cash segment on that

day. It is thus clear that there was no unwinding of the futures

position before the exposures were reduced. 105. Reliance was made by the Respondent in the case of M/s. Pankaj Oil Mills vs. Commissioner of Income-Tax, Gujarat ,

AIR 1978 Guj 226 to contend that open interest positions should

be closed simultaneously with the sales in the cash segment.

This contention is totally misplaced for the reasons that hedge

transactions are taken for the purpose of insuring against the

adverse price fluctuations. If it is a genuine and valid hedge, the

total contract of sale should not exceed the total stock of raw

materials or merchandise in hand. In the instant case, when

hedge position of 9.92 crore shares were taken the underlying

was the proposed 21.5 crore shares. Thus, the total sale

transaction did not exceed the total stock of raw materials in -86- hand which complies with the requirement of a hedge contract.

Further, there will always be imperfections in the F&O market

and we also find that there is no provision which provides that a

close out should be simultaneous. 106. The case of Ontario (Minister of Finance) vs Placer Dome

Canada Limited (supra), does not support the case of the

Respondent namely, that the period of hedge underlying should

be equal to the proposed sales. The said decision only states that

where a party has assets or liability exposed to market

fluctuations, such transaction would be a hedge. 107. Similarly, in the case of Whorley v. Patton - Kjose

Company, Inc. [90 Mont. 461] [1931] it was held that

simultaneous closing of positions with the underlying would

become speculative. In this regard, we have already pointed out

that imperfection in a hedge transaction will always exist when

created or squared up in derivative market. Further, L. C.

Gupta's report clearly indicates that the derivative market was

created for speculation and, therefore, if hedge is combined with

speculation, the same is not illegal. 108. Thus, we hold that a transaction in the F&O segment is a

hedge if there is an underlying exposure/ risk. In this case it

cannot be denied that there was an underlying exposure/ risk,

namely, the potential sale of 22.5 Cr shares in the cash segment.

This is an identified and existing risk. A hedge even assuming it

is imperfect, does not and cannot cease to be a hedge nor

becomes speculative. There is no need for a simultaneous closure

of the open positions along with the reduction in the exposure.

An underlying risk has to be present at the time of taking the

positions. There is nothing wrong nor there are any rules which

prescribes that there has to be a simultaneous closure of the open

position in the F&O segment. As long as the underlying

exposure/ risk continues, the hedge can continue. Neither the

extent of the hedge transaction nor the extent of the outstanding

hedge oppositions need have any co-terminus co-relation with

the underlying exposure/ risk. There is no rule which stipulates

that throughout the period of the hedge, the open position

should be equal to the underlying risk. In fact, the F&O segment

rules clearly allow either closure of position by purchases in the

F&O segment (in this case) or allow the open position to be

closed out by the exchanges on the last day and this was done. -88- 109. Before we deal with the issues on whether the agreements

issued between appellant no. 1 with appellant no. 2 to 13 are

benami contracts, and whether such arrangements were part of a

scheme/article intended to manipulate and/or defraud the

market or whether the execution of trades through the

agreements was with the object of avoiding detection of the

breach of the client wise position limits, it would be appropriate

to place certain facts, and circulars issued by the respondent. 110. The trades in derivatives, namely, transactions in F&O

segment was allowed when SEBI accepted the recommendation

of L.C. Gupta Commission. The trades in derivatives were first

allowed in the stock exchange indices, namely Index Futures.

SEBI circular dt 28.07.1999 prescribed the risk containment

measures. The relevant measures for the purpose of this appeal

is:- 111. In respect of Single Stock Futures, SEBI issued a circular dt

02.11.2001, the relevant portion is extracted hereunder:- The only requirement was that a particular client/customer

should not exceed the higher of 1% of the free float market

capitalization (in terms of number of shares) or 5% of the Open

Interest in the derivative contracts on a particular underlying

stock. 113. In the light of the aforesaid, as per circular of 2001, for the

Nov 2007 Futures, the client wise position limit of RPL shares -92- comes to 1.09 Cr shares as on 6.11.07 and 90 lac shares as on

29.11.2007. We find from the record that appellant no. 2 to 13,

held short position which was nearly equal to the maximum that

was allowed to them. Breach of this limit invites penalty as per

NSE circular of 2004 under the SCR Act . Appellant no. 1 admits

that the 12 named entities (appellant 2 to 13) were its agents. The

appellant no. 1, however contends that the position limits are

applicable to a client/customer and every agent was an

independent client/customer of the broker since the concept of

acting in concert was wanting and no disclosure was required,

each and every agent of appellant no. 1 was validly as well as

legally entitled to take short positions within the limits

prescribed as per circular of 2001. The circular specifically stated

that there was no ban on taking up positions by persons acting

in concert. The circular makes it clear that the 12 agents could

validly take individual position limits without disclosing that

they were acting in concert and thus their position limits could

not be aggregated, and traded as though the aggregate open

Interest of RIL. 114. Before we dwell further on these circulars and Open

Interest position, it would be appropriate to take a look into the -93- agreements executed by the 12 agents with RIL. From a perusal

of the agreements, we find that the twelve agency agreements

are identical. The trades done by the 12 agents in the F&O

segment were only for the benefit of RIL. Clause 1.2 of the

agreement provided that each transaction executed by the agent

was to be approved by RIL and that the agents had no discretion

to execute trades without RIL's authorization. Clause 3.2 of the

agreement further provided that all the profits and losses arising

out of the transactions would be to the account of RIL and that

the 12 agents were only entitled to a commission. 115. In the light of the aforesaid, the WTM, in the impugned

order held that the 12 agency agreements whereby the profits

and losses of the 12 agents which were to be credited to the

account of appellant no. 1 RIL were not benami contracts and

were not violation of the provisions of the Benami Transactions

(Prohibition) Act 1988. It is thus, not necessary for this Tribunal

to dwell on this aspect of the matter. 116. Appellant No. 1, RIL admits that the 12 named entities,

namely appellant no. 2 to 13 were its agents. In view of this

admission, the principles of the principal- agent relationship -94- need not be elaborated and is not necessary to go into the case

laws cited by the learned senior counsel for the respondent.

However, the fundamental principle of agency law is enunciated

in Sec 226 of the Contract Act 1872 which provides that contracts

entered into through an agent, and obligations arising from acts

done by an agent, may be enforced in the same manner, and will

have the same legal consequences, as if the contracts has been

entered into and the acts done by the principal in person. This

concept has been explained by the Calcutta High Court in Sukumari Gupta vs Dhirendra Nath Roy Choudhary , 1984

SCC online Cal 244 and by the Supreme Court in Firm of

Pratapchand Nopaji vs Firm of Kopike Venkata Shetty (1975)

2 SCC 208 and again by the Supreme Court in Jagir Singh Vs

Ranbir Singh 1979 AIR SC 381. 117. Sec. 182 of the Contract Act defines an ‚agent‛ and

‚principal‛, namely, an ‚agent‛ is a person employed to do any

act for another or to represent another in dealings with third

persons. The person for whom such act is done, or who is

represented, is called the ‚principal‛. We find that the maxim

‚qui tacit per alium facit per se‛ is fully applicable, namely,

whatever a person has power to do himself, he may do so by -95- appointing an agent. Conversely, what a person cannot do

himself, he cannot do so by means of an agent. 118. Thus even though the 12 agents, appellant 2 to 13 had

validly taken individual position limits in the Nov 2007 RPL

Futures as per the circulars which are applicable to a client/

customer, and even though they were not required to disclose

that they were acting in concert at the behest of appellant no. 1

RIL, yet in the given facts and circumstances of the case, since

the 12 agents were acting on behalf of the principal RIL who was

the ultimate beneficiary, the separate position limits would not

apply to each of them. The logic is simple. Since RIL could not

have crossed the position limits in its individual capacity, it

could not cross the position limits through its agents. The

principle that ‚what could not be done directly, could not be

done indirectly‛ is fully applicable in the instant case. Thus the

open position limits taken by the 12 agents when aggregated

violates the circular. 119. From a reading of the circulars, we find that the position

limits are very clear. The position limits are applicable to a

client/ customer. In the instant case every appellant no. 2 to 13 -96- was an independent client/ customer of the broker. The circular

of 2001 dispensed with the requirement of disclosure of persons

acting in concert. The circular specifically stated that there was

no ban on taking up positions by persons acting in concert. We

however find that the twelve agents had exploited this loophole

by validly taking open interest position within the permissible

limits and since no disclosure was required, they validly

executed the transactions without disclosing that they were

acting in concert. This defect in the circular was exploited by the

twelve agents. The breach of the position limits, in our view,

being technical only invites a penalty under the circulars. 120. Thus, the trades made by the appellants in the Future

Segment beyond position limits violates the circulars and bye-

laws. In this regard, we need to refer to Section 18(A) , 9(2) and 9(3) of the SCR Act. Section 18(A) is extracted hereunder:- In this regard, the rule making power given to the stock

exchange to frame bye-laws has been provided under Section 9 of the SCR Act. Section 9(3) specifies the punishment in the

event of any contravention of the bye-laws. For facility, Section

9(3) of the SCRA is extracted hereunder:- 121. A perusal of Section 9(3) provides that in the event of a

contravention, a fine, expulsion from membership, suspension

from membership for a specified period or any other penalty of a

like nature not involving the payment of money, can be

imposed. Based on the aforesaid, various circulars have been

issued by the Respondent and by the Stock Exchange under the SCR Act providing monetary penalties for violating the position

limits. 122. Thus, from a perusal of Section 9(2) and 9(3) of the SCR

Act, we find that breach of the contract for want of compliance

with the bye-laws under Section 14 are restrictive to the extent of

the punishment depicted in Section 9(3) viz, fine, expulsion or

suspension from membership or other non-monetary penalties -99- could be imposed. The power cannot be extended for fraudulent

trading practices under the SEBI Act and its Regulations. 123. In the instant case, we find that for violating the circulars,

the WTM did not impose monetary penalty but chose to prohibit

the appellants from dealing in equity derivatives in F&O

segment of the Stock Exchange directly or indirectly for a period

of one year which the appellants have undergone. Thus, the

direction given by the WTM, in our opinion, is in consonance

with Section 9(3)(iv) of the SCR Act. No further penalty can be

imposed. 124. The WTM however did not end the matter here but went

on to hold that the concentration of position limits by the 12

agents was with the intention to corner the F&O segment and

was therefore fraudulent and manipulative in nature. The WTM

held that agency agreement was a shield to cover up the

unauthorized acts of the agents and therefore the agreement is a

sham. The pattern of position limits assumed by the agents

against the individually available position limits as per the

circular was premeditated and preplanned was fraudulent in

nature u/s 12 A (1) to (3) of SEBI Act and Regulation 3 and 4 of -100- PFUTP Regulation. This finding is patently erroneous as will be

clear in the following paragraphs. 125. On the issue of amassing large position limits thereby

denying other market participants, we find from the Show

Cause Notice that the aggregate Open Interest positions on

6.11.2007 was 61.5% in Futures and 48.6% across all derivatives

segments (i.e. options & futures). On 29.11.07 it was 93.63% in

Futures and 40.1% across all derivative segments, i.e. Options

and Futures. In this regard, we find that the position limit

circulars does not prescribe separate limits for options and

separate limits for futures. However, from the SCN itself, we can

cull out that on 6.11.07 38.85% of the limits were taken in all

derivative segments by others. Similarly, on 29.11.07, 59.9% of

the limits were taken in all the derivative segments by others.

Further, we are of the opinion that the increase from 61.15% of

the Open Interest in the Nov 2007 RPL Futures held by the 12

agents moved to 93.63% on 29.11.07 on account of the fact that

this increase could be attributed to others who had closed their

Open Interest during this period. Thus without investigating this

aspect, the WTM could not attribute the amassing of the Open

Interest positions to the actions of the 12 agents. -101- 126. It may be noted here that the position limit circulars

specifically states that the client wise/customer wise position

limits were being prescribed to ‚deter and detect concentration

of positions and market manipulations‛. We find that as per the

circular on position limits, the prescription of position wide limit

is only to deter and detect market manipulation. Assuming that

during the course of investigation the concentration was

detected, we are of the opinion that neither in terms of the

circular, nor in terms of the PFUTP Regulation, such

concentration would automatically amount to manipulation.

Concentration by itself does not become manipulation unless a

separate act is established. If the legislative intent was that

concentration itself was manipulative, the framers would have

prescribed disclosure by persons acting in concert and also

determined the extent of concentration which would amount to

manipulation. Breaching position limit only attracts monetary

penalty under the circular and cannot automatically attract

PFUTP Regulations. 127. In this regard, we find that the contention of the

respondent that the circulars mandated the appellant to make -102- the disclosure and that such non disclosure amounted to

misrepresentation and further amounted to manipulation is

patently misconceived. At the risk of repetition, the position

limit circulars does not prescribe any disclosure for person

acting in concert in the case of Single Stock Futures unlike in the

case of Index Futures. Even under the SEBI Act or under PFUTP

Regulation, there is no provision for a disclosure requirement

which clearly means that the exchange did not require

disclosure. In this regard, we find that Regulation 4 .3.5 (j) of NSE

(F&O segment) Trading Regulations provides that the trading

member shall not disclose the name and beneficial identity of a

constituent to any person except to a F&O segment of the

exchange as and when required by it. Therefore, there was no

requirement for RIL to disclose that the 12 entities were its

agents. We also find, in this regard, that the respondent having

realized the loophole in their circular came out with a

consolidated circular in Dec 2016 which prescribed the

disclosure requirement of connected entities. Not only this, NSE

amended the client broker agreement subsequently, to include

an undertaking by the client that he is not acting in concert with

any other person. Thus aggregation of the position limits would -103- at best amount to a breach of the position limits inviting a

monetary penalty and the same cannot be termed as

manipulative or fraudulent. 128. The WTM has also given a finding that the agency

agreement were executed for the sole purpose of circumventing

he regulatory framework laid down to govern the transactions in

the F&O segment and that the whole exercise was premeditated

and preplanned and therefore fraudulent in nature and thus

qualifies to be so for the purpose of sub sec (1) to (3) of Sec 12 A

of the SEBI Act and Regulation 3 & 4 of the PFUTP Regulations.

In our opinion this finding is not based on sound reasoning and

is based on surmises and conjectures. In this regard we find that

the execution of the agency agreement was never denied by RIL.

In fact the agency agreement were disclosed in the first instance

when queries were made by SEBI. It is not a case when SEBI

discovered these agreements during the course of its

investigation. We find that these agreements were never hidden

and were disclosed by RIL at the first opportune moment. 129. The finding that these agreements were executed for the

purpose of circumventing the regulatory framework and that it -104- was a premeditated exercise is purely based on surmises and

conjectures. The stand of RIL from the very beginning was clear,

namely, that they had to sell 22.5 Cr shares of RPL and therefore

executed the agreements with the 12 entities so that they could

individually take position limits within the framework of the

circulars. Nothing was an afterthought nor can such agreement

be called a sham agreement. 130. The WTM held that the cash segment trades of appellant

No.1 on 29/11/2007 during the last ten minutes of trading hours

is fraudulent and manipulative in nature as contemplated under

the PFUTP Regulations. In our view, this finding is purely based

on conjectures and is not based on sound reasoning. How are

the trades done in the last 10 minutes are fraudulent and

manipulative has not been disclosed. The finding that the

appellant's trading in the last 10 minutes was only for the

purpose to depress the settlement price in the November, 2007

RPL Futures in order to make undue gains and is therefore

fraudulent as well as manipulative and is not based on sound

reasoning but is based on surmises and conjectures. We find

that the findings of the WTM are basically on the basis of

intentions, motives and suspicions. This in our view is not -105- enough to establish fraud or manipulation. We are of the

opinion that a manipulation of the share price has to be

established and the burden is upon the respondent which they

have failed miserably. 131. Admittedly, appellant No.1 sold and delivered 2.25 crore

shares. These trades were genuine sales. There is no allegation

that the trades done by appellant No.1 in the last 10 minutes

were circular trades between appellant No.1 and a set of people

resulting in no delivery of shares in the cash segment. There is

no evidence to show that the sale of 2.25 crore shares were

subsequently repurchased by appellant no.1 and therefore

created suspicion on the genuineness of the trades. In the

absence of any such evidence coming on record, the sales made

by the appellant No.1 in the last ten minutes which resulted in

the actual delivery of shares cannot be termed as manipulative. 132. The contention that the selection of the time (i.e. the last 10

minutes) creates suspicion that the trades were intended to

manipulate the price especially in the light of the fact that the

appellant No.1 did not sell any shares in the cash segment from

24/11/2007 till the last ten minutes on 29/11/2007 and therefore -106- such entry in the last 10 minutes was solely intended to

manipulate the price is patently baseless. In the first instance

there is no law, regulation or circular which debars any person

from entering the market in the last 10 minutes. A trader has a

right to trade at any time during the period when the Stock

Exchanges are open. There can be no restrictions on any person

from trading in the last 10 minutes. Further, the fact that the

appellant No.1 did not trade between 24/11/2007 till the last 10

minutes of 29/11/2007 is immaterial and cannot create a

suspicion nor its entry in the last 10 minutes creates a suspicion

of the manipulation of the price with an intent. In the first

instance, no one can prevent an investor to trade on all days. It

is the choice of an investor to enter the market and trade and,

such decision is, based on the understanding of the securities

market. A person may trade on one day and thereafter may not

trade for many days. It is the choice of an investor for whatever

compulsion he may have. Thus, not trading from 24th

November till the last 10 minutes of 29th November 2007 does

not create a suspicion. 133. In this regard, we find that the appellant had traded on

23/11/2007. As per Table 5 of the Vo. III of the Compilation of -107- Documents, the appellant had traded 0.52 crore RPL shares at an

average price of Rs.209.62. It may be noted here that 24/11/2007

and 25/11/2007 were Saturday and Sunday. No trades were

possible on these two days on account of the closure of the Stock

Exchange. On 26th November 2007, the opening price was

Rs.213 per share and the closing price was Rs.204.05. The

appellant chose not to enter the market on 27th and 28th

November 2007, the weighted average price was only Rs.197.79

and Rs.194.17. Further, only 2.68 cr and 3.08 cr shares

respectively were traded on these days which indicates that not

many trades were done at or above Rs.200/-. It may be noted

here that appellant No.1 never sold the shares below Rs.200/-

from 6/11/2007 till 29/11/2007. On 29/11/2007, the opening price

was Rs.197.80 and remained below Rs.200/- till 3.00 p.m. on

29/11/2007 when it rose to Rs.208.10 and touched Rs.224.70 at

3:21:40 p.m. as is clear from para 4.B.4 of the impugned order.

The appellant No.1 had last traded on 23/11/2007 at the average

weighted price of Rs.208.79. Thus, when the price rose to

Rs.224.7 at 3:21:40 it made prudent business sense to enter the

market and sell the remaining shares in order to get a better

price. Such entry in the last ten minutes was not done -108- deliberately in order to depress the settlement price but was

done in order to sell the scrips at a better and higher price. Such

entry thus was a business decision and cannot be termed either

manipulative or fraudulent. In our view, the motive of RIL was

to sell RPL shares in the cash segment at a higher price rather

than closing the Open Interest positions at lower prices. 134. There is another aspect. On 27/11/2007 and 28/11/2007

only 2.6 crore and 3.08 crore shares were traded. On 29/11/2007,

17.66 crore of shares were traded and appellant No.1 only traded

1.95 crore which were delivered. Thus, it cannot be said that a

large quantity of shares were sold by appellant No.1 when

compared with the total trades made on 29/11/2007. The finding

of the WTM that a very large quantity of 1.95 crore shares

(should be 2.25 cr shares) were dumped in the market without

checking as to how many shares were traded by others in the

last 10 minutes is clearly unfair. No finding has been given by

the WTM as to how much trades were done by others in the last

10 minutes. Without making comparison, it is neither proper

nor correct to suggest and give a finding that the appellant No.1

was solely responsible for depressing the price. In this regard,

we however, find from a perusal of Table 13 of Vol.3 of -109- Compilation of Documents that appellant No.1 had traded 1.95

crore shares in the cash segment on the NSE platform in the last

ten minutes and during the same period, others had traded 1.06

crore shares. Thus, appellant No.1 cannot be solely responsible

for depressing the settlement price, if any. There were others

also. 135. There is still another aspect. If it was a well planned

manipulation with the intention to depress the settlement price,

the appellant would have started selling the shares from 3.00

p.m. onwards since it is common knowledge that the last half

hours weighted average price is the settlement price. But the

same was not done and only when the price rose to Rs.224.90 at

3:21:40 p.m. the appellant No.1 entered the market in order to

reap the average in the cash segment. 136. There is yet another angle to it. On 29/11/2007, total shares

traded were 17.66 crore. Appellant traded 2.25 crore shares and

delivered 2.25 crore shares. Others traded 15.41 cr shares but

delivered 2.78 cr shares which is a mere 17.68% against 100%

delivery by appellant no.1. This shows that the sales made by

appellant No.1 were genuine and the trades made by others -110- were speculative. In this view of the matter, SEBI should have

conducted an investigation as to why the RPL shares were

moving up at such a rapid pace from 3.00 p.m. to 3.20 p.m. The

price was Rs.208.10 at 3.00 p.m. and rose to Rs.224.7 at 3:21:40.

We find it strange that this sudden increase in the price in the

last half hour did not create suspicion nor raised an eyebrow.

There was ever likelihood that some forces were trying to raise

the price in order to close the gap between the settlement price

and the open interest positions taken by the 12 appellants in the

F&O segment. On the other hand, cognizance has been taken for

the trades done by appellant No.1 for manipulating and

depressing the price from Rs.224.7 to Rs.209 at3.3.0 p.m.

Between 3.00 p.m. to 3.30 p.m. 7.9 crore shares were traded

(Table 13) out of which the appellant No.1only traded 2.25 crore

shares. Thus, appellant No.1 was not alone in depressing the

price. 137. It may be noted here that on 6/11/2007 the opening price

on the NSE platform was Rs.271.70 and the high price was

Rs.279.10. Appellant No.1 sold 4.67 crore shares out of 15.03

crore shares traded, the price came down to Rs.220.15 and the

low price was Rs.214.10. There was a swing of Rs.64.55 between -111- high price and low price. No eyebrow was raised by SEBI for

depressing the price. No suspicion of manipulation or fraud

was raised. On the other hand, much has been analyzed of the

last 10 minutes of trades which are genuine sales and, are in any

case, not fraudulent /manipulative or speculative. It is natural

that when large quantities of shares are sold, such sales

generally brings the prices down. Such drop in the price does

not amount to manipulation nor such transaction amounts to a

fraudulent act. The findings of the WTM are untenable and

cannot be accepted since it is not based on a proper analysis but

is based on suspicions, motives and intentions, which in our

opinion, is based on surmises and conjectures. 138. Much has been argued on the trades made in the last 10

minutes on 29/11/2007. The finding of the WTM is that the sale

of a large quantity of 2.25 crore shares had caused the price to

fall since large numbers of sell orders were placed below the

LTP. It has come on record that out of 17 orders placed by

appellant No.1, 10 sell orders were placed below the LTP. A

finding has been given that huge selling pressure was created in

the scrip which obviously affected the price of the scrip. In this

regard, we must understand the concept of 'last traded price' -112- (LTP). LTP is the price at which a purchase and sale gets

executed by matching a purchase and sale order. It has no other

significance. When there is a demand for a share, a purchaser

will always place a bid which is higher than the LTP. If a seller

wants to ensure that his sell order gets executed when there is a

huge demand, it is apparent that the seller will not place his sale

bids at a price below the LTP but rather would place his bids at a

higher price than the LTP there is a demand for a share and a

seller puts the ask price at below LTP and finds that his entire

sell order has got executed at a price above the ask price, the

next sell order placed by him normally will not be lower than

LTP. However, if the seller persistently puts lower ask price

again and again, it would create suspicion that the seller is

depressing the price for whatever reasons which would

ultimately lead to manipulation. In the instant case, when we

analyze Table 12 of Vol.III of the Compilation of Documents, we

do not find that by placing sell orders at below LTP, the

appellant were trying to depress the price for the following

reasons:- The aforesaid indicates that even when sell orders were placed

below LTP, there was no demand for shares since majority of the

shares were not executed. However, when trades were placed

from 15:25:30 onwards at Rs.210 against the LTP of Rs.217.50, all

the trades were executed. This by itself will not make the trades

of appellant No.1 manipulative for the purpose of depressing the

settlement price in the F&O segment. As held earlier, the trades

made by the appellant were genuine trades in the absence of any

finding that the said sell orders were brought subsequently. The -114- contention of the appellant No.1 that it had to sell the shares at a

lower price in order to get the sales executed seems to be

plausible. In any case, such sales cannot be termed manipulative.

We also find that no analysis of the trades made by others in the

last ten minutes have been made. There could be others who

had placed sell orders below the LTP, but such trades have not

been analyzed or compared with the trades of the appellant. As

per figures in the impugned order, 7.85 crore were traded in the

last half hour and the share of the appellant was only 1.95 crore

shares which by comparison cannot be held to be a large

quantity. Thus, holding that appellant had dumped large

quantity of shares in the last 10 minutes is unwarranted. 139. In view of the aforesaid, whether appellant No.1 has

manipulated the prices is a question of fact and not of law. On

the basis of the aforesaid facts and analysis done, we are of the

opinion that no case of manipulation has been made out against

appellant No.1 for trading in the last 10 minutes on 29/11/2007.

The respondent has not discharged the burden of establishing

manipulation. In fact on the basis of the analysis done and the

explanation given by the appellant No.1, the preponderance of

probability lies in favor of appellant No.1. 140. We may observe here that if all the transactions were

manipulative, then there is no logic as to why the WTM has

found that the trades of 1.09 cr shares were lawful. This is

inconsistent with the conclusions drawn by the WTM. This

clearly means that the order for disgorgement of alleged profits

pertains to the balance 7.42cr shares only on the basis of

exceeding the position limits. As held earlier, exceeding the

position limits will not attract Sec.11B of the SEBI Act. The order

for disgorgement is thus illegal. 141. The finding that all the transactions taken together was a

well planned fraudulent manipulative scheme by appellant no. 1

to earn undue profits based on manipulation and fraud is

erroneous. We have already held that the transactions made by

appellants were not manipulative in nature. We find that the

element of fraud has to be established which in the instant case

the respondent has miserably failed. 142. Establishment of fraud requires a higher degree of proof

than what is made out in the impugned order. The impugned

order establishes fraud on the basis of motive and nothing else. -116- In this regard, ‚fraud‛ is defined under regulation 2(1)(c) of

PFUTP regulations, which states as under:- And ‚fraudulent‛ shall be construed accordingly;

A perusal of the aforesaid definition clause will indicate that

motive is not a consideration for establishing a fraud. In fact, the

essential ingredient for establishing fraud is ‚inducing others to -117- trade‛. A fraud can be established only when inducement is

established. 143. In the matter of Sandip Paul Vs Sebi (2009) SCC Online

SAT 82 and in the matter of Sebi Vs Rakhi Trading Pvt Ltd (2018) 13 SCC 753, it was found that since manipulation was

established therefore inducement was not required to be proved.

Therefore, these cases relied upon by the respondent are

distinguishable on facts. In the instant case, manipulation has

not been established and fraud has been established only on the

basis of motive which is not permissible. Reliance was also made

by the respondent on a decision of the Supreme Court in SEBI

Vs Kanhaiya Lal Baldevbhai Patel and others (2017) 15 SCC 1

which in our opinion does not support the stand of the

respondent in the instant case. The Supreme Court in the said

decision held that ‚fraud‛ is one which has the effect of inducing

another in dealing in securities. In the instant case, there is no

finding given by the WTM that the appellant had induced others

in dealing in securities. Thus, the respondent has failed to

established inducement and accordingly failed to discharge its

burden. In this regard, we may also point out that the WTM in

the impugned order has held that the charge under regulation -118- 4(2)(b) of the PFUTP regulations, expressly requires inducement

as a prerequisite condition. 144. In Price Waterhouse & Co. vs SEBI , 2019 SCC Online

SAT 165, this tribunal held that inducement is an essential

element to constitute fraud. The said decision is squarely

applicable in the instant case. 145. The contention of the respondent that the Regulation 3(b) of the PFUTP Regulations is squarely applicable as it does not

require the element of fraud and inducement. The contention of

the respondent that the employment of 12 agents is a device to

exceed the position limits and is thus a misrepresentation which

is in contravention of the provisions of the SEBI Act and its

Regulations. In our opinion, this contention is not correct. We

have already held that the appellant have violated the circulars

relating to the position limits and were thus liable for penalty as

per the circulars. The circulars have been issued under the SCR

Act and have not been issued under the SEBI Act or its rules and

regulations. Thus, even if there is a violation of the position

limits, it cannot attract the provisions of regulation 3 (b) of the

PFUTP regulations which has been framed under the SEBI Act . -119- The SCR Act prescribes penalty separately for violation of the

position limits. Thus Regulation 3(b) is not applicable for

violation of position limits. . 146. The Respondents have taken recourse to Section 12A of the

SEBI Act read with Regulation 3(a)(b)(c)(d) and 4(1) and 4(2)(d) and (e) of the PFUTP Regulations. In this regard, Section 12A of

the SEBI Act and Regulations 3 & 4 of the PFUTP are extracted

hereunder:- public information or communicate such material or non-
public information to any other person, in a manner which
is in contravention of the provisions of this Act or the rules
or the regulations made thereunder; (f) acquire control of any company or securities more
than the percentage of equity share capital of a company
whose securities are listed or proposed to be listed on a
recognised stock exchange in contravention of the
regulations made under this Act.‛

Regulations 3 & 4(1),(2)(d)&(e) of the PFUTP

"3. Prohibition of certain dealings in securities
No person shall directly or indirectly-- (a) buy, sell or otherwise deal in securities in a
 fraudulent manner; (b) use or employ, in connection with issue, purchase
 or sale of any security listed or proposed to be
 listed in a recognized stock exchange, any
 manipulative or deceptive device or contrivance in
 contravention of the provisions of the Act or the
 rules or the regulations made there under; (c) employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud
 in connection with dealing in or issue of securities
 which are listed or proposed to be listed on a
 recognized stock exchange; (d) engage in any act, practice, course of business
 which operates or would operate as fraud or deceit
 upon any person in connection with any dealing in
 or issue of securities which are listed or proposed
 to be listed on a recognized stock exchange in
 contravention of the provisions of the Act or the
 rules and the regulations made there under.‚ -121- "4. Prohibition of manipulative, fraudulent and unfair
 trade practices
 (1) Without prejudice to the provisions of regulation
 3, no person shall indulge in a manipulative, fraudulent or
 an unfair trade practice in securities markets. (2) Dealing in securities shall be deemed to be a
 manipulative fraudulent or an unfair trade practice if it
 involves any of the following:-- 147. A finding has been given by the WTM that the appellants

have indulged in manipulative and fraudulent transactions and

thus comes within the purview of Section 12A read with

Regulations 3 & 4 of the PFUTP Regulations. In this regard, Section 12(A)(a) provides that the contravention with regard to

the purchase and sale of any securities is to be made under the

provisions of ‚this Act‛ meaning thereby violations under the SEBI Act . Regulation 3(b) of the PFUTP Regulations also states

that the contravention has to be in accordance with the

provisions of the‛Act‛. The word ‚Act‛ has been defined under -122- Regulation 3(1)(a) of the PFUTP Regulations which means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 . Thus, a

person can be held liable only when he deals in the purchase and

sale of any securities and contravenes the provisions of the SEBI

Act and the Regulations made thereunder and not otherwise. If

a person violates any provisions of the SCR Act , the provisions

of the SEBI Act will not automatically come into play. 148. The Respondents have held that placing huge orders

below the LTP in the last 10 minutes depressed the settlement

price and, therefore, manipulation was established under Regulation 4(2)(e) though no violation was established under Regulation 4(2)(d) . In this regard, we have already held that

fraud has not been proved in the absence of any finding on

inducement. Admittedly, the WTM has found that the charge

levelled in the show-cause notice regarding violation of Regulation 4(2)(d) has not been made out, namely, the charge of

inducement. If inducement is not made out or proved then the

charge of fraud or fraudulent action automatically fails. Thus, in

our opinion, Section 12A read with Regulations 3 & 4 of the

PFTP Regulations, are not made out. 149. It was contended by the respondent that the charge under Regulation 3(b) of the PFUTP is made out which provision does

not require the element of fraud and inducement to be proved.

It was contended that employment of 12 agents was the device

to exceed the position limits and therefore there was a

contravention of the SEBI Act and the Regulations is, in our

view, erroneous. As we have held the violation of the position

limits circulars which are issued under the SCR Act does not

attract provisions of Regulation 3(b) of the Regulations framed

under the SEBI Act . Since the burden of proving inducement

has not been proved which is an essential ingredient to establish

a fraud, we are of the opinion that no fraud has been made out

and therefore Regulation 3(b) is not applicable for violation of

position limits. Since the position limits was a valid hedge and

valid trades were made which were not manipulative or

fraudulent, the provisions of Section 12A of the SEBI Act and

Reg. 3&4 of the PFUTP Reg. are thus not applicable. 150. The Respondents have exercised the powers under Section

11 and 11B in directing the appellant No.11 to disgorge an

amount of Rs.447.27 crore along with interest. -124- 151. In Securities and Exchange Board of India vs. Pan Asia

Advisors Limited and Another , (2015) 14 SCC 71 the Supreme

Court has set out the scope of Section 12A of the SEBI Act. The

Supreme Court held:- 152. In N. Narayanan vs Securities and Exchange Board of
India , (2013) 12 SCC 152 the Supreme Court held:- 153. Thus, Section 12A of the SEBI Act creates a clear

prohibition of manipulative and deceptive devices, insider

trading and acquisition of securities. Section 12A(a) ,(b) & (c)

stipulates that no person should directly or indirectly indulge in

such manipulative and deceptive devices in connection with the

issue, purchase and sale of any securities or use any device or

engage in any act which would operate as fraud or deceit on any

person while dealing in securities. 154. The scope of PFUTP Regulations, 2003 has been set out by

the Supreme Court in Kanaiyalal's case (supra). The Supreme

Court held:- 155. SEBI under the SEBI Act enjoys wide powers under Section

11 , 11A and 11B to protect the interests of the investors in the

securities market by taking such measures as it thinks fit. In Securities and Exchange Board of India vs Pan Asia Advisors

Limited and Others (2015) 14 SCC 77, the Supreme Court held:- The paramount duty cast upon the Board, as stated
 earlier, is protection of interests of the investors in
 securities and securities market. In exercise of its
 powers, it can pass orders of restraint to carry out the
 said purpose by restraining any person.‛

Thus, the powers conferred on SEBI under Section 11 and 11B is

to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote

the development of and to regulate the securities market.

Therefore, the measure to be adopted by SEBI is remedial and

not punitive. 156. In view of the aforesaid there is no manipulative or

fraudulent transaction which comes under the purview of Sec.12A of the SEBI Act read with Reg. 3&4 of the PFUTP

Regulations. We reiterate that the respondent has failed to

discharge the burden of establishing manipulation. No case of

manipulation or fraudulent transactions in the last ten minutes

of trading has been made out. The violation of the circulars only

invites a penalty under the SCR Act . 157. In the absence of any contravention, the direction issued

under Section 11-B of the SEBI Act to the appellant no.1 to

disgorge an amount of Rs.447.27 cr. alongwith interest is without

any authority of law and, to that extent, the order is set aside. 158. In the result, the appeal is allowed in part. In the

circumstances of the case, parties shall bear their own costs. Justice Tarun Agarwala
 Presiding Officer

05-11-2020
dg -130- Per: Dr. C.K.G Nair, Member 159. We are unable to agree with the findings and conclusions

reached by the Honourable Presiding Officer in his Order.

Therefore, we proceed to write a separate Order in this matter. 160. This appeal has been filed aggrieved by the order of the

Whole Time Member ('WTM' for short) of the Securities and

Exchange Board of India ('SEBI' for short) dated March 24, 2017.

By the said order the appellants have been prohibited from

dealing in equity derivatives in the Futures and Options

Segments (F&O) of the Stock Exchanges directly or indirectly for

a period of one year, except for squaring off or closing out their

existing open position and appellant no. 1, in addition, has been

directed to disgorge an amount of Rs. 447.27 crore along with

interest at the rate of 12% per annum calculated with effect from

November 29, 2007 till the actual date of payment. The period of

restraint of one year imposed on the appellants is over during

the pendency of the appeal. 161. The core question raised in this appeal is whether the

Principal-Agent model/‚agency model‛ adopted by appellant

no. 1 RIL and implemented with the help of other 11 appellants -131- (because of merger of 2 of the original 12 other Noticees, there

are 11 other appellants) in cornering huge position limits in the

2007 November single stock futures contract in the shares of

Reliance Petroleum Ltd. ('RPL' for short) and the offloading of

substantial quantities of RPL shares in the cash segment of the

stock exchanges in the last 10 minutes (effectively 8.40 minutes)

of the trading hours on 29 November, 2007, the settlement day,

allegedly with an intention to artificially depress the price in the

cash segment to make larger gains in the future contracts, are

violative of the stated provisions of the Securities Contracts

(Regulations) Act, 1956 ('SCRA' for short), Securities and

Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (' SEBI Act, 1992 ' for short),

SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices)

Regulations, 2003 ('PFUTP Regulations' for short) and the cited

circulars issued by SEBI/Exchanges regarding position limits. 162. Facts relating to the appeal are not disputed; what is

disputed is the interpretation and analysis of those facts and

interpretation of the relevant laws and circulars. That means

what is not disputed, only why and legality of the actions are

disputed. 163. On November 6, 2007, open position in the single stock

futures contracts of Reliance Petroleum Ltd. (RPL) reached 95%

of the market-wide position limit in National Stock Exchange

(NSE). Therefore, as per the existing rules, no further increase in

open interest was possible and therefore, on 7th November, 2007,

further increase in open position was banned by the NSE. This

has alerted SEBI and an investigation was directed. A Show

Cause Notice (SCN) dated April 29, 2009 was issued to

Appellant no.1. After some correspondence a corrigendum

dated October 8, 2009 was issued. Upon consideration of the

reply and the material found during investigation, in

suppression of the above SCN, a fresh SCN dated December 16,

2010 was issued by respondent SEBI to the appellant no.1 as well

as to 12 other entities. 164. It is the case of the appellants that, on 29 March 2007, the

Board of Directors of Appellant No.1 decided to raise resources,

inter alia, by offloading approximately 5% of its holdings of

equity shares of Reliance Petroleum Limited (RPL), a subsidiary

of RIL. While Appellant No.1 undertook the transactions in the

cash segment of RPL in November 2007, it enlisted the services

of other 12 Noticees, as agents to operate on its behalf in the -133- single stock futures segment of RPL. During November 1, 2007

and November 6, 2007 these 12 entities took substantial short-

sell positions in the November Futures contract of RPL.

Appellant No.1, RIL itself did not take any position in the

Futures segment. As a result, on November 06, 2007, the open

position in the RPL November Futures reached 95% of the

market-wide position limit (MWPL) thereby leading to ban by

the NSE on further increase in open interest (OI) position as per

extant rules pertaining to trading in the derivatives segment. As

part of the investigation which followed, price-volume trends in

the cash market vis-a-vis the F&O segment of RPL shares were

analyzed by SEBI to ascertain violations of the provisions of the

SCRA, 1956; SEBI Act, 1992 ; and the Rules and Regulations

framed thereunder especially with respect to the SEBI

(Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices)

Regulations, 2003 (PFUTP Regulations) and the circulars on

'position limits' issued by SEBI and NSE relating to derivatives

trading. After the investigation, SEBI issued the December SCN,

which is the subject matter of the present proceedings. 165. In order to take short sell position in the November RPL

futures contract, admittedly, Appellant No. 1 engaged the -134- services of 12 front entities who, by trading through different

brokers, took a total net short position of 9.92 crore shares of

RPL and locked in an average price of Rs. 265.67 in four trading

days between November 1 - 6, 2007. Thereafter Appellant No. 1

sold 20.29 crore shares of RPL in the cash segments of the stock

exchange between November 6 - 29, 2007. Out of these 20.29

crore shares 2.24 crore shares were sold in the last 8.40 minutes

on November 29,2007 before closing of trade and the rest in

earlier 11 trading days between 6-24 November. While two of

the Noticees squared off their position in the Futures segment

before November 29, 2007, 10 Noticees continued with their

combined net short position of 7.97 crore shares and allowed it

to be cash settled on expiry. The RPL November futures contract

was to expire on November 29, 2007. In the process the appellant

sold a total of 20.29 crore shares of RPL for about Rs. 4500 crores

in the cash segment and made a profit in the F&O segment to the

tune of Rs. 513 crores. 166. The agency agreements separately entered into by

Appellant no. 1 RIL with the 12 entities were identical.

Investigation revealed that these front entities opened trading

accounts with different brokers during October - early -135- November 2007. It was also revealed that, except appellant no.12

Dharti Investment and Holding Pvt. Ltd, other 11 entities were

green horns. Their agency-wise, date-wise details and their

connections, are all exhaustively given in the impugned order.

Since it is an admitted position of Appellants that these 12

entities were in fact engaged by RIL for taking positions in the

November futures contracts of RPL and the details of their

trading etc. are not disputed, we do not propose to elaborate on

this issue. However, it is important to note that, admittedly,

these 12 front entities were engaged on a commission basis and

the entire profit and loss emanating from their trading activities

would flow to the accounts of RIL. It is also to be noted that the

entire trading activities of these front entities were executed by

an employee (Mr. Sandeep Agarwal) of a wholly owned

subsidiary of RIL, who also placed orders in the cash market for

selling the RPL shares. Information available on records also

shows that RPL, a subsidiary of RIL, got listed in May 2006 when

it came out with an Initial Public Offer (IPO) of equity shares at

the rate of Rs. 60/- which reached the peak price of Rs. 294/- on

November 1, 2007, the date on which RIL entered the RPL stock

futures segment through its enlisted agents/entities. RIL, at the -136- relevant time held 75% of the equity shares of RPL, from which

it had decided to sell approximately 5% of the shares in its Board

meeting held on March 29, 2007, as contended by the appellants.

During July 2008 to January 2009, there had been a number of

correspondences between SEBI and RIL during the course of

which only RIL disclosed the fact relating to the agency

agreements with 12 front entities. Accordingly, on the basis of

the information gathered SEBI issued a SCN on April 29, 2009

only against RIL alleging violation of SEBI Act, 1992 and PFUTP

Regulations. Subsequently, on October 8, 2009 a corrigendum to

the SCN was also issued to RIL asking to show cause why

directions should not be issued under Regulation 11 of SEBI

(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992. Based on the

replies filed by RIL, SEBI re-investigated the matter and issued a

second SCN dated December 16, 2010 to RIL as well as to the 12

front entities in supersession of the first SCN dated April 29,

2009 and its corrigendum dated October 8, 2009. 167. Summary of the allegations in the SCN are:- 168. Based on an evaluation of the facts and circumstances

brought out in the SCN and, the replies submitted, the

impugned order has been passed with the following findings: (ii) The Noticee No.1, by manipulating the F&O segment

 through 12 of its agents (Noticees Nos. 2 -13) and allowing them -139- to hold the contracts till the last day of expiry and thereafter by

 closing out the derivative contracts on the 29th of November,

 2007 has engaged in a pre-planned fraudulent practice and the

 same cannot be held to be a mere breach of position limits by the

 clients attracting penalty under the exchange circulars. (iii) On the basis of the analysis of the trading strategy/pattern

 adopted by Noticee No.1 in the cash market during the month of

 November 2007 and specifically on the 29th of November 2007,

 being the expiry day of the November Futures of RPL, it is found

 that there has been a manipulation of the last half an hour

 settlement price. (iv) In short, the actions of Noticee No.1 and Noticees Nos.2-

 13, described in sub-paras (i), (ii) and (iii) above constitute a

 violation of the provisions of section 12A of SEBI Act, 1992 read

 with regulations 3, 4(1) and 4(2)(e) of the SEBI (PFUTP)

 Regulations, 2003. Noticees Nos. 2 to 13 have also violated

 provisions of the SEBI circular No. SMDRP/DC/CIR-10/01

 dated November 2, 2001 and NSE circular No.

 NSE/CMPT/2982 dated November 7, 2001. 169. The crux of the findings and assessment of the WTM in the

impugned Order are the following. (a) RIL's act of employing 12 entities to take separate short

 positions (aggregating to 9.92 Cr on Nov. 6, 2007 in

 Nov. 2007 RPL Futures), is not a hedging strategy, as

 claimed by RIL in reply to the SCN, but is a pre-planned -140- fraudulent scheme for cornering positions and

 manipulation of Nov. 2007 RPL Futures market to make

 unlawful gains. This cannot be construed as mere

 breach of position limits by the clients attracting penalty

 under the exchange circulars. (b) The sale of 1.95 Cr RPL shares (an error because only

 data from NSE is taken, actual sales 2.24 cr shares when

 data of 29 lakh shares sold in BSE is added; as

 elsewhere given in the impugned order itself) in the

 cash segment by RIL during the last 10 minutes of

 trading on Nov. 29, 2007 have been done for depressing

 the last half an hour weighted average price (which is

 the settlement price for Nov. 2007 RPL Futures) to make

 gains on the 7.97 Cr outstanding short positions in Nov.

 2007 RPL Futures is manipulative as contemplated

 under the PFUTP Regulations. (c) RIL made unlawful gains of Rs 513 Crore by this

 fraudulent and manipulative strategy/pattern of

 trading. The actions of RIL and the other 12 entities

 constitute violation of the provisions of Section 12A of

 the SEBI Act read with Regulations 3, 4(1) and 4(2)(e) of -141- PFUTP Regulations. The 12 entities have also violated

 provisions of 2001 SEBI Circular and 2001 NSE Circular

 relating to position limits in single stock futures

 segment. 170. Since charges/allegations relating to Benami transactions

raised in the SCN were dropped by the WTM we do not propose

to deal with the same in this Order. 171. We have heard Mr. Harish Salve, learned Senior Advocate

along with Mr. Janak Dwarkadas, learned Senior Advocate, Mr.

Raghav Shankar, Mr. Rohan Rajadhyaksha, Mr. Ashwath Rav,

Mr. Kashish Batia, Mr. Vivek Shetty, Mr. Amey Nabar, Mr.

Geetanjali Sharma, Ms. Arundhati Kelkar, Mr. Armaan Patkar,

Ms. Cheryl Fernandes and Mr. Vedant Jalan, learned Advocates

for appellants. We have also heard Mr. Darius Khambata,

learned Senior Advocate with Mr. Gaurav Joshi, learned Senior

Advocate, Mr. Aditya Mehta, Mr. Mihir Mody and Mr. Shehaab

Roshan, learned Advocates for the respondent. 172. In addition, we have also heard two individual

Interveners, Mr. Arun Kumar Agarwal and Mr. Shailesh Mehta,

who appeared before us in person. Before we proceed with the -142- submission made by the appellants and the respondent on the

merit of the matter, we proceed to deal with the submissions

made by the Interveners. Apart from seeking various

documents, appeal papers etc. the crux of the submissions made

by the Interveners are that if SEBI had investigated the matter in

its totality and covering a longer period it would have been clear

that the extent of violations committed by appellant no. 1 would

have been of a much higher magnitude. According to Intervener

Mr. Arun Kumar Agarwal the unlawful gains made by RIL

should have been Rs. 3500 crore and not Rs. 513 crore if SEBI had

investigated the massive increase in the share prices of the RPL

during September 2006 to October 2007 from Rs. 67/- to Rs. 295/-.

Similarly, the insider trading angle also should have been

investigated. Accordingly, investigation conducted by SEBI is

faulty and the matter should therefore be remanded to SEBI for

reinvestigation. 173. Intervener Mr. Shailesh Mehta, submitted that the

appellants have concealed material facts in their appeal,

including that one of the entities on appeal has been deleted

from the list maintained by the Registrar of Companies (RoC)

and all the trades done by the appellants between June 1, 2007 to -143- December 31, 2007 should be annulled and monies refunded to

the investors in the scrip of RPL. 174. Since the Interveners were not parties before SEBI, we did

not consider it appropriate to make them party respondents to

the appeal. However, despite strong opposition from the

Appellants against the intervention applications stating that they

are not necessary parties, in the interest of justice, we heard the

Interveners in person and have perused their written

submissions. The interveners submitted that the respondent

SEBI has not conducted the investigation properly. The price

rise of the shares being miraculous ought to have been

investigated by the respondent SEBI since beginning. They

further submitted that this Tribunal has co-extensive power as

that of SEBI in view of the declaration on this issue in the case of Clariant International Ltd. &Anr. Vs. SEBI (2004) 8 SCC 524. 175. We find it untenable to accept the arguments of the

Interveners because the crux of their submissions is for

expanding the scope (both the issues and the time span) of the

investigation. It is an established position in law that an

Intervener is entitled only to address the arguments in favour of -144- or against the impugned order. Any intervention to expand /

enlarge the scope of the appeal is not relevant to the matter in

hand as well as the mandate assigned to this Tribunal. Similarly,

issue such as oppression of minority shareholders and

mismanagement are not within the purview of this Tribunal and

this Tribunal has to go by the mandate assigned to it under Section 15T of the SEBI Act, 1992 as Section 15T(4) states that this

Tribunal may pass orders confirming, modifying or setting aside

the order appealed against. This is the crux of the decisions in Clariant (supra), which though relied on but not correctly

interpreted by the Interveners. The decision in the case of Clariant (supra) is explained by the Supreme Court in the case

of National Securities Depository Ltd. vs. SEBI (2017) SCC

Online 256 wherein in para no.24 the Supreme Court clarified as

under:- 176. It would be seen that Securities Appellate Tribunal

exercises its appellate powers as derived from Section 15T of the

SEBI Act. Since only judicial and quasi-judicial orders passed by

SEBI are appealable, direction to reinvestigate the case would be

administrative in nature and therefore the plea of the interveners

in this regard also cannot be accepted. Accordingly, after

consideration of the submissions made by the Interveners, we

reject the intervention applications. 177. Coming back to the merit of the appeal, Mr. Harish Salve,

the learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants

elaborately contended as follows: Rollovers on due date shall be permitted up to
 the extent of the market value as on that
 date.‛‛ 178. The learned senior counsel for the Appellants adverted our

attention to the above clauses and contended that so far as

forward foreign exchange contracts participants are concerned

this circular provides that transaction to hedge exchange rate

risk is permitted under the FEMA, 1999. More particularly

clause (b) of the said circular permits continuation of holding

position in derivative market even after the hedge has become

'naked'. A naked hedge transaction cannot be called illegal. 179. Learned senior counsel Mr. Salve further submitted that

given the underlying exposure, RIL decided to take a reasonable

level of hedge and therefore engaged 12 entities to take net short

positions in the RPL November futures. Given the market

position limits of about a crore shares applicable to each entity

and since each entity remained within the position limited

allowed them to take, a total net short position of only about 9.97

crore shares was taken though the decision was to sell about 22.5

crore shares in the cash segment. Therefore, the appellant no 1 -149- was actually under-hedged till the 15th November by which time

it had sold substantial quantity of RPL shares in the cash

segment. He further submitted that the finding in the impugned

order that RIL did not have any hedging policy in 2007 is like a

joke, given that mandatory hedging policy came into force only

in 2016. 180. His further submissions are that engaging 12 front entities

to take positions in the F&O segment for RIL, who had a huge

underlying exposure, was not against the exchange rules relating

to position limits. In fact, it was contended that in the first

circular relating to position limit etc. issued by SEBI dated July

28, 1999 on ‚index based futures and options‛ no client level

position limits were even fixed. Further, there was a provision

for 'acting in concert' and thereby if the position limit exceeds

15% of the open interest a disclosure had to be made to the stock

exchanges. In subsequent circulars, though client level position

limits were introduced, particularly, for single stock futures and

options, there was no ban on 'acting in concert' or on

aggregation of positions; therefore, there is no violation of

position limit related laws by RIL when it engaged 12 front

entities to take positions on its behalf in the futures segment. -150- Even if it is held to be a position limit violation, without

admitting the same, at worst it is a case of position limit

violation under relevant stock exchange circulars and only a

penalty under the said circulars/Exchange Rules can be imposed

on the appellant. 181. According to him, there is no fraud, no manipulation, no

attempt to deceive the market and the impugned order has

failed miserably to prove even by a whisper how exceeding

position limits in the face of substantial exposure of the

underlying, is market manipulation and fraud as defined under Section 12A of SEBI Act, 1992 and under the stated provisions of

the PFUTP Regulations as wrongfully held in the impugned

order. Accordingly, the finding in the impugned order that the

appellants have violated provisions relating to PFUTP

Regulations is patently erroneous and based on conjectures and

surmises. 182. He further contended that for proving 'fraud' an element

of 'inducement' has to be proved which is not the case of the

impugned order. There is no evidence on record to show that the

appellants were guilty of inducement. The total trades -151- undertaken by the appellants in RPL futures in November 2007

were to the tune of only 8% of the total trades in the futures

market that too which was executed on the anonymous system

with delivery / settlement. Therefore, the impugned trades were

genuine trades conducted in an orderly and bona fide fashion. As

a responsible promoter of RPL it was the duty of RIL to carry out

its trading operations in an orderly fashion without adversely

impacting the market and therefore the hedge in the futures

segment and calibrated sale in the cash segment was for

upholding that responsibility. 183. According to Mr. Salve, if the intention of RIL was to make

money at any cost to the market and to the minority investors it

could have offloaded the entire 22.5 crore shares on November 1,

2007 itself or on other days in November when the spot price

was ruling high. Similarly, it could have squared off the

positions in the futures segment on those days in November

2007 when the spot prices were low and thereby earned a much

larger spread. The learned senior counsel produced various

charts before us to show that sales in the cash segment and

squaring off the futures positions on various dates in November

which would have fetched the appellants much more than what -152- was ultimately earned. Those iterative positions / simulation

tables were heavily relied on by the learned senior counsel to

show that appellant RIL was behaving as a responsible promoter

and a bona fide market participant in its entire dealing in RPL

shares / F&O in November 2007. 184. Citing an office note of SEBI, it was emphatically

submitted by Mr. Salve that the whole exercise of respondent

SEBI in conducting the investigation and initiating the

proceedings against the appellants was biased. It was contended

that while the appellants fully cooperated with the respondent

during investigation by providing all information and

documents as required by the respondent, the attitude of the

respondent has been prejudicial. The relevant office note was

part of Misc. Application no.427 of 2019 filed in the present

proceedings which was disposed of by this Tribunal on 20th

August, 2019. The said application was filed for staying the

implementation of SCN dated November 21, 2017 issued by the

AO of SEBI with a view to impose penalty. Reading of the

Office note of respondent SEBI dated November 6, 2009 would

show that a personal hearing in the case was scheduled before

the WTM on November 7, 2009 at 2.30 p.m. The advocate of the -153- respondent SEBI was briefed for presenting the case on behalf of

SEBI. However, the Advocate had advised to obtain certain

information from appellant no.1 'in order to strengthen the

evidence against the entity'. Therefore, vide the office note it

was decided that the respondent SEBI would seek adjournment

of the hearing to be held on November 7, 2009. On the strength

of this material, Mr. Salve submitted that the very act of the

respondent of collecting information with a view ‚to strengthen

the evidence against appellant no.1‛ would show that the

respondent SEBI instead of acting as an independent regulator

was bent upon collecting evidence against the appellant.

Therefore, he submitted that the order of the WTM is also on the

similar lines. 185. As regards the last 10 minutes trades which is also found

by the Respondent SEBI to be contravening provisions of SEBI

Act, 1992 and PFUTP Regulations, the learned senior counsel

Mr. Salve submitted that when RIL had another about 4.50 crore

shares to be sold on 29 November as per its earlier decision, it

actually sold only 2.25 crore shares on the last day of trading.

Therefore, if the intention, as alleged in the impugned order, was

to suppress RPL spot prices and thereby to impact the settlement -154- price in order to earn a larger spread on the remaining net short

position of 7.97 crore shares in the futures segment it could have

dumped more shares in the spot market / cash segment. 186. Regarding the allegation that the RIL was impacting the

Last Traded Price (LTP) by placing sell orders below the LTP in

the cash segment, it was contended that the impugned order

failed to understand that when large orders are to be placed in

the market price would fall and a counter party could be found

only if big orders are placed a bit below the LTP. When some

orders were placed at the LTP much could not be sold, as data

would confirm. There is no manipulation in such a trading

strategy as discovered by the impugned order. In fact, when the

appellant placed 5 out of 17 orders in the last 10 minutes at LTP

only limited quantity of shares could be sold and even in cases

where orders were placed below LTP the full quantity could not

be sold. The learned senior counsel produced the complete trail

of the trades and the price data relating to trade in the last 10

minutes to prove this contention and concluded that it was

trying to 'match the prices at which the demand existed' rather

than under pricing the RPL shares and manipulating the LTP. -155- 187. According to Mr. Salve, all trades were delivered and/or

settled as per exchange rules and therefore the finding in the

impugned order that the position limits taken by the Appellants

were violative of Section 18A of SCRA and hence illegal is

without any legal basis. In fact, trades by the Appellants fulfilled

all the conditions stated under Section 18A of SCRA. Therefore,

even if this Tribunal finds it to be violation of the position limits

circular only a penalty under the exchange rules could have been

imposed. The WTM's finding holding the Appellants to be

violating Section 12A of SEBI Act and PFUTP Regulations is

completely arbitrary as a position limit violation under the

SCRA/exchange rules cannot be used to hoist a charge of PFUTP

violations. This is all the more important, it was contended,

when Section 12A of SEBI Act reads as below and states that the

said section can be invoked only when provisions of the SEBI

Act and Rules are violated, not for violation of other laws. 12A. No person shall directly or indirectly-- (a) use or employ, in connection with the issue,
 purchase or sale of any securities listed or proposed to be
 listed on a recognized stock exchange, any manipulative
 or deceptive device or contrivance in contravention of
 the provisions of this Act or the rules or the
 regulations made thereunder; (emphasis added by the appellant) -156- 188. It was vehemently contended that possible SCRA violation

of position limits cannot be artificially converted into PFUTP

violations under the SEBI Act , particularly when no fraud or

inducement has been proved in the impugned order. 189. Learned senior counsel for the appellant further submitted

that the WTM, while summarizing the case at para no.5.4, had

declared that the appellants have violated the provisions of Section 12A of Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992

read with Regulation 3 , 4(1) and 4(2)(e) of the Securities and

Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair

Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003.

However, in the SCN, in addition to above sub-Regulations,

violation of Regulation 4 (2) (d) as well was stated. Thus, the

learned WTM did not find the appellants guilty of violation of

the provisions of regulation 4(2)(d) of the SEBI PFUTP

Regulations, 2003 which deals with engaging others to cause

fluctuation in the security market. Therefore, the learned WTM

did not find that the appellants had indulged into manipulative

practices. 190. As far as the issue of fraud is concerned, it was argued as

well as underlined in the written submissions by the appellant at

page no.77 clause (1) that the learned WTM had for the purpose

of disgorgement computed the purported profits made out of

7.42 crore shares (8.51 crore shares - 1.09 crore shares). This,

concession of 1.09 crore shares was given on the basis that the

average net short open position limit for one client during the

period was 1.09 crore shares. Thus, the impugned order itself

conceives that only the violation committed by the appellants is

that of position limits under the position limit circulars and there

has been no manipulation, much less fraud. 191. The learned senior counsel for appellants also objected to

the proposal from the side of respondent SEBI during the latter's

argument for rectification of the findings by this appellate

tribunal. He submitted that a statutory order issued by an

authority cannot be supplemented by fresh reasons in appeal

and one cannot go beyond the order under challenge in appeal.

Reliance was placed on decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court

in the case of Mohinder Singh Gill vs. Election Commissioner (1978) 1 SCC 404 and a decision of this Tribunal in the cases of -158- Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. vs. SEBI (2001) SCC Online SAT

28 to support this contention. 192. In short, the learned senior counsel for the Appellants

categorically contended that the engagement of 12 front entities

by RIL was a valid act as per the provisions of the Contract Act ;

taking positions by acting in concert or by aggregation is not

violative of client-wise position limits and is not a contravention

of relevant exchange rules and circulars; no evidence of fraud,

inducement or manipulation has been brought out in the

impugned order and hence provisions of SEBI Act, 1992 and

PFUTP Regulations could not have been invoked and an order

under Sections 11 and 11B of SEBI Act could not have been

issued against the appellants and no penalty/disgorgement

could have been ordered. Without admitting, it was contended,

that the actions of the Appellants may be at worst interpreted as

a position limit violation under the relevant exchange circulars

and a penalty under the same could have been the only

punishment, if at all any, that could have imposed on the

appellants. 193. On the other hand, the learned senior counsel Mr. Darius

Khambata appearing for the respondent SEBI strongly

contended that the scheme perpetrated by the appellants was an

unparalleled manipulation of the securities market. The

magnitude of the offence is clear from one single fact that

effectively one party (RIL), through a clandestine scheme of

engaging 12 front entities cornered 93.6% of the open interest on

the settlement day of November futures contract and as on

November 6, 2007 it had cornered 61.5% of the open interest. In

terms of numbers the net short position of the appellants was

9.92 crore as on November 6, 2007 and 7.97 crore shares on the

settlement day. Client level maximum position limit that could

have been taken as on these dates were 101 lakh and 90 lack

shares respectively. Such a cornering of the market is a fraud on

the system and the market as a whole thereby impacting all the

participants in the RPL counters and would spill on to the rest of

the markets. Moreover, such a fraud was committed by

employing a scheme and artifice of splitting the trades across 12

agents so that the market remained completely in the dark. The

market equilibrium had been impacted by the fraudulent -160- behavior of one single player accomplished through a 'principal-

agent model' innovated and implemented by RIL. 194. In addition to violation of SEBI Act, 1992 and PFUTP

Regulations, appointing 12 agents by RIL to take up short

positions in RPL futures was a clear violation of the stock

exchange circulars also, Mr. Khambata contended. This is clear

from a reading of the SEBI circular dated November 2, 2001 and

NSE Circular dated November 7, 2001 in respect of position

limits for single stock futures as part of the ‚risk containment

measures to deter and detect concentration of positions and

market manipulation‛. As per these circulars the ‚maximum

client wise position limits could have been the higher of 1% of

the free float market capitalization or 5% of the open interest in a

particular derivative‛. In terms of numbers the maximum client

wise position limits could have been 101 lakh shares on

November 6, 2007 and 90 lakh shares on November 29, 2007.

Against this the appellant had accumulated 992 lakh and 797

lakh shares respectively (more than 9 times the permissible

level) which is a gross violation of the position limits and

thereby undermining the risk containment capacity and the

integrity of the market and the systems in place. -161- 195. Mr. Khambata further submitted that, it is now an

admitted position that appellant no. 1 and other 12 noticees were

having a Principal-Agent relationship. Such an arrangement

under Section 226 of the Contract Act, 1872 would entail all the

legal consequences on the Principal as if such contracts had been

entered into and acts done by the Principal in person.

Accordingly, the Principal could not have cornered the market

by taking up huge net sell position by engaging agents to do the

same since under the provisions of the Contract Act , 'what is

prohibited directly cannot be done indirectly by engaging

others'. 196. Accordingly, the learned senior counsel for SEBI

contended that when a Principal-Agent model was used by the

appellants they could not have adopted the argument that there

is no prohibition on acting in concert or aggregation in the SEBI /

NSE circulars, though such an interpretation of the Circulars

would be a complete misreading to totally undermine the

principles behind imposing position limits in the derivatives

market as a major risk management strategy. 197. As regards manipulation and violation of Section 12A of

SEBI Act, 1992 read with Regulation 3 , 4(1) and 4(2) (e) of the

PFUTP Regulations the learned senior counsel submitted that

once manipulation was established inducement would

automatically follow. By the manipulative activities of the

appellants integrity of the market in RPL shares in November

2007 was compromised and market integrity is essential for a

market to perform its functions in a normal fashion. It was a

vitiated market because of the manipulation perpetuated by the

appellants in terms of taking huge net short positions through a

manipulative scheme of a Principal-Agent arrangement set up at

the back of the market participants. Since the market was

already manipulated rest of the market participants were facing

a fraudulent market which was inducing them to behave in a

particular fashion. Given this position, the argument of the

appellant that specific finding is needed to prove ‚inducement‛

is patently erroneous. In order to prove this contention, the

learned senior counsel relied on the decisions of the Apex Court

in Securities and Exchange Board of India vs Rakhi Trading

Private Ltd. , (2018) 13 SCC 753 which established that once the

factum of manipulation was proved no further proof was -163- required that the investors were induced and consequentially

fraud is deemed to be established. In fact, the learned senior

counsel proceeded to emphasize that once fraud is established in

terms of engaging an artificial device to defraud the market it

becomes immaterial even whether positions limits have been

violated or not because through such a device (clearly a PFUTP

Regulations) the appellant had already tried to manipulate the

market whether succeeded or not. 198. In answer to the submissions on omission of sub- Regulation 4(2)(d) of PFUTP Regulations, the learned senior

counsel for the respondent contended that so far as the exclusion

of Regulation 4(2)(d) of SEBI PFUTP Regulation, 2003 is

concerned it was clearly a clerical mistake caused in the

impugned order. The reasoning of the learned WTM recorded

extensively in the order would show that the learned WTM came

to the conclusion that the transactions in dispute were also

manipulative as well fraudulent in nature by engaging entities

with view to cause fluctuation in the security market i.e.

violation of the provisions of Regulation 4 (2) (d) . Merely a

clerical mistake in not quoting the said provision in the

summarizing paragraph would not change the nature of the -164- findings. Mr. Khambata submitted that in view of the decision of

the Supreme Court in Clariant 's case (supra) this Tribunal in

appeal can correct these mistakes. 199. As regards the contention of the appellant that the learned

WTM himself considered that there was no fraud but only a

violation of the position limit circular it was submitted that the

reading of the impugned order in entirety would show that the

learned WTM had also came to the conclusion that the

appellants have indulged into fraudulent transaction since

‚fraud‛ has a very wide meaning under the PFUTP Regulations. 200. Shri Khambata further submitted that the action of RIL in

dumping of 2.25 Cr shares (with most of the orders placed well

below LTP) in the last ten minutes of trading on 29 November,

2007 was with the sole purpose of manipulating the settlement

price of the RPL Futures contracts. Such manipulation amounted

to a fraudulent act. He stated that on 29 November, 2007, RPL

scrip opened at Rs 193.80 and rose to Rs 208.20 at 3:00 p.m. and

thereafter increased further to Rs 224.35 at 3:20 p.m. The graph

of RPL share price during the last half hour showed that the

price was rising steadily. Such continuous price rise was not -165- suiting RIL, as a rise in price of the RPL shares in the cash

segment would mean reduction in RIL's realization on its open

position in the RPL Futures segment. The learned senior counsel,

thus, submitted that in order to avert a situation of reduced

margin on their locked in price in the futures segment, RIL

started dumping RPL shares in the cash segment during the last

10 minutes of trading. This dumping was with a view to reverse

the rising trend in RPL's share price. All these activities,

according to Mr. Khambata debunks the defense of 'hedging'

taken by the Appellant No. 1. (d) 201. It was further contended that in the last 8 minutes and 15

seconds of trading, RIL placed 17 sell orders for 2.43 Cr shares in

which 12 out of 17 orders were placed at prices lower than Last

Traded Price (LTP). As a result of placing sell orders below LTP,

RIL managed to reduce the price of RPL shares from Rs 224.35

price per share to about Rs. 210 thereby lowering the last half

hour weighted average price (settlement price) to Rs 215.25 per

share resulting in RIL making higher profits on RPL Futures.

The learned senior counsel submitted that dumping of huge

quantity of shares in the last 10 minutes was clearly

manipulative and a fraud on the market, as it clearly influenced -166- the settlement price in the Futures segment. Therefore, the

WTM was justified in holding that the dumping of large

quantity of shares in the last 10 minutes was to influence the

settlement price in order to gain huge profits in the F&O

segment is the correct finding. The said act was solely with a

mala fide intention. The learned senior counsel submitted that the

contention of RIL that they were selling the shares in order to

take advantage of the higher price in the last 10 minutes of the

trading was totally erroneous. In fact, the selling of the shares

was only with the intention to manipulate the market in order to

bring the price down. 202. The learned senior counsel placed reliance on the decision

of this Tribunal in Sandeep Paul vs SEBI- Appeal No. 418 of 2015

decided by this tribunal on JULY 12, 2019 in which it was held

that factors such as volume of trading, percentage of market

share, timings of trades in the last half hour would establish that

the person had engaged in market manipulation. It was thus

urged that selling 2.25 Cr shares in the last 10 min which led to

undermine the settlement price was sufficient to establish

market manipulation and fraudulent act on the side of the

Appellant no 1. 203. Shri Khambata, further contended that the defense of

'hedging' adopted by RIL was nothing but an afterthought to

cover up the motive of making speculative gains. Short selling

9.92 Cr shares in the Futures segment was not a legitimate hedge

in as much as RIL's intention was to corner futures positions and

take advantage of the price dip in the cash segment induced by

RIIL itself. The appellants' contention that the transactions

executed in the Futures segment were hedge transactions since it

expected RPL prices to fall when shares were sold in the cash

segment was nothing but an afterthought. The learned senior

counsel placed reliance on a decision of the Gujarat High Court

in Pankaj Oil Mills vs Comm . of Income Tax, AIR 1978 Guj. 226

which distinguished hedging from speculative transactions as

‚the genuine transactions entered into for purposes of insuring

against adverse price fluctuations‛ and further held ‚in order to

be genuine and valid hedging contracts of sales, the total of such

transactions should not exceed the total stocks of the raw

materials or the merchandise on hand which would include

existing stocks as well as the stocks acquired under the firm

contracts of purchases.‛ -168- 204. The learned senior counsel also placed reliance on a

decision of the Supreme Court of Canada in Ontario (Minister

of Finance) vs Placer Dome Canada Ltd, 2006 SCC Online Can

SC 20, which has explained the difference between hedging and

speculation in the following terms: 205. Accordingly, the learned senior counsel contended that,

there must be a correlation in the quantities of shares exposed to

market fluctuations and the quantity of the hedge transaction

undertaken in the futures market. If the quantities in the futures

market exceed the quantity of shares actually exposed to market

fluctuations then the transaction would not be a genuine hedge.

Reliance was also made on another decision of The Supreme

Court of Montana in Whorley vs Patton-Kjose Co., Inc. 90

Mont.461 in which it was held that ‚Country elevator hedging

involves a purchase of grain and a sale of a future as

simultaneously as possible, as insurance against the fluctuation

of the market between the time of purchase and the arrival of the -169- grain in Minneapolis for sale, and, on arrival, an equally

simultaneous executing of the reverse of these transactions. It is

a hedge only in so far as the transactions are simultaneous and

the amount of grain sold for future delivery offsets the grain

purchased. If the operator, having sold his actual grain, fails to

buy back his hedge in the future market, he is backing his

individual judgment against the fluctuations of market prices

and is speculating and no longer hedging.‛ 206. Shri Khambata further submitted that unwinding of a

hedge transaction has to be almost simultaneous with the sale of

the shares in the cash segment. Further, the quantity of the

hedge transaction unwound must be substantially the same as

the quantity of shares sold in the cash segment. If the hedge

transaction is not unwound simultaneously and to the same

extent as the sale in the cash segment, then the transaction

would cease to be hedge transaction. 207. Before dealing with the submissions and contentions of the

parties on merits it would be appropriate to extract the relevant

provisions of Section 12A of the SEBI Act as well as Regulations -170- 3 and 4 of the PFUTP Regulations for convenience, which reads

as follows: - 4. Prohibition of manipulative, fraudulent and
unfair trade practices

(1) Without prejudice to the provisions of regulation
3, no person shall indulge in a fraudulent or an unfair
trade practice in securities. (2) Dealing in securities shall be deemed to be a
fraudulent or an unfair trade practice if it involves
fraud and may include all or any of the following,
namely:- 208. We have heard the extensive submissions and contentions

made by the learned Senior Counsel representing the parties and

perused the voluminous documents submitted before us. The

central contention of the learned senior counsel for the appellant

is that the issue in question is a simple, linear one of taking

positions as a hedge in the derivative markets by someone who

has an underlying exposure. Whether such a position limit is

taken by one entity or with the help of multiple entities for the

benefit of that one entity is immaterial or violative of the

circulars issued by SEBI / NSE on November 2/7 2001 in this

regard because those circulars do not prohibit position taken in

'aggregation' or by 'acting in concert'. This submission is too

simplistic, patently erroneous and gravely mischievous. In fact,

if such a submission is adopted/accepted it would lead to a

complete decimation of the derivatives market as position limit

in the derivative market is arguably the most important

regulatory tool available to manage/mitigate the considerable

extent of risks associated with derivatives products. The

impugned order itself explains the sanctity of position limits in

preserving the integrity of derivatives market and to minimize

risk as under: - Therefore, stock-wise, client-wise and broker/ member-wise
position limits are recommended / prescribed by rules so as
to reduce concentration risk. The position limit stipulation
is one among the risk containment measures in the field of
derivatives amongst others such as capital adequacy,
stringent margin requirements, automatic disentitlement
from trading when limits are crossed etc. 4.A.13 In para 12.2 of its reply, Noticee No.1 has
submitted that ‚ the position limits for derivative
contracts prescribed by stock exchanges and by SEBI are -174- applicable to a customer/client and we believe that these
limits apply to each customer / client individually and
independently. In any event, the relevant circulars do not
provide for aggregating the position limits‛. The noticees
have also quoted the SEBI circular at para 12.4 of its
written submission, as shown below: By citing the said provision, it has been argued by the
appellants that the thresholds prescribed are ‚with respect
to a specific customer or client only‛. It has also been
contented that SEBI has not provided for any concept of
aggregation of holdings in this circular unlike in the
Takeover Regulations (reference made to ‚persons acting
in concert‛ etc.)‛ 4.A.14 In my view, the interpretation as advanced by
Noticee No.1 holds good only if the words 'clients' or
'customers' would mean different clients or customers and
not in a case where several clients or customers were
acting on behalf of one common ultimate beneficiary. If the
argument of Noticee No.1 is adopted, the stipulation of a
client-wise limit in the relevant circular itself becomes
irrelevant and redundant. Further, it would throw open
the possibility of grave misuse by a person to multiply his
position by enlisting agents to act on his behalf rather than
to limit itself to the stipulated criteria laid down in law.
Such a concentration of the position limits by one person
deprives the other market players of the availability of the
OI in a particular scrip. If a client corners position by -175- procuring position limits clandestinely from their trading
 members showing different names and identities, it is
 nothing but perpetration of a large scale fraud on the
 market including the trading members, the public
 shareholders in the scrip and the investors in general. The
 other arguments of the noticees relating to aggregation of
 holdings of a client not being provided in law, does not
 merit any consideration in view of the above observations. 4.A.15 The circulars authorizing exchanges to impose
 penalty for breaches committed with respect to client-wise
 position limits cannot be construed in such a way to
 impose a limitation upon the inherent powers of the
 regulator to check and curb the perpetration of fraudulent
 and manipulative practices in the securities market and to
 protect and preserve the market integrity. From the
 manner and the time frame in which the agency
 agreements were executed, it is obvious that these
 agreements were executed by Noticee No. 1 for the purpose
 of circumventing the regulatory framework laid down to
 govern the transactions in the F&O segment. The whole
 exercise of position limit violation has been perpetrated
 from the time the noticees 2-13 were identified and
 appointed as agents by Noticee No.1 for the sake of taking
 positions in F&O segment. Therefore, this appears to be a
 premeditated and pre planned exercise of Noticee No.1 as
 alleged in the SCN. 209. The aforesaid clarifications and analysis of the principles

behind the regulatory provisions relating to position limits

answer a number of other contentions of the appellant. It was

contended that the 1999 Circular relating to position limits in

index futures and options did not even put any client level

position limits and provided for aggregation, which only -176- necessitated a disclosure. It is factually correct. However, the

stipulations in the 1999 Circular was to be revisited after 6

months as it was issued when 'Index Futures' were just about to

be introduced in Indian market. That is why when single stock

futures were introduced later, the 2001 circulars (supra) came

into operation with a well-defined client-level position limit.

Further, in the 1999 circular the threshold of aggregate position

limit which needed to be disclosed to the exchanges was 15% of

the market-wide position limit, which is far less than the 62 % or

93% cornered by the appellants on 06 November and 29

November 2007 respectively. In any case when client-wise

position limit was introduced and effected in 2001, the

appellants are not entitled to even invoke the provisions relating

to a circular of 1999 issued in respect of index products, which

are quite different from single stock products, and that too for

trading done in 2007, six years after the relevant circulars came

into effect and when volumes in the derivatives segment had

become very large. 210. By interpreting Section 18A of SCRA, the learned Senior

Counsel for the appellants contended that since all their trades

were in accordance with the conditions specified therein those -177- trades were legal and hence the finding in the impugned order

that the trades were illegal is patently wrong. A reading of the

said Section, 18A reproduced below, would make such an

argument hollow. Contracts in derivative. 211. Section 18A was introduced in SCRA to provide legality to

derivatives contracts which had been otherwise considered

wagering contracts which were illegal. Therefore, exchange

trading and clearing house settlement were made necessary

conditions for making derivatives contracts legal. Any person

entering into dealing in the derivate segment of the stock

exchange is under an obligation to follow the stipulations of the

stock exchanges/clearing houses in this regard. While Section

18A made a class of contracts called derivatives contracts traded -178- in stock exchanges and settled in clearing houses legal vis a vis

wagering contracts, the section does not make trades done in

violation of SCRA and SEBI Act and Rules and Regulations

thereunder and Rules and bylaws of the Exchange/Clearing

houses legal just because those trades had been done through

the exchange/clearing house eco system. The contention of the

appellant is both spurious and devious, striking at the very root

of Section 18A. Therefore, when the WTM has held that since the

appellants' trades were vitiated because of its fraudulence and

hence illegal, such a finding is far from being faulty. 212. Moreover, the contention of the appellants that position

limit violation, by whatsoever means, is a question of only

violating the stock exchange circulars and thereby providing

only a penalty to the exchange is a disastrous argument for

derivatives market in particular and for securities market in

general. In fact, the ensuing disaster will not be restricted to the

securities market because there are derivatives market in

currencies and in commodities, in addition to that in securities.

Just to give an example of the potential disaster; assuming that

an entity with the help of a few other entities corner the market-

wide open position and in the process control the futures -179- contracts in wheat. The consequences for the commodity market

in India and consequently for agri-sector and for the entire

economy will be disastrous. So will be case if an entity corners

the position limits in the forex market, say in US Dollar-INR

futures. Position limit violation envisaged under the exchange

circulars is simple and straight forward : when a particular

entity, identifiable to the exchange surveillance mechanism by

their code number / name, exceeding its position limit that the

exchange could immediately monitor the same and take

appropriate regulatory step to rectify the same such as directing

its winding down to the permissible level or by imposing a

penalty etc. In the context of the present appeal, the 12 entities in

picture were distinct entities and hence for the exchange

surveillance mechanism there was no way to capture that these

entities were indeed agents of any particular entity. In fact, when

one of the entities (Appellant no.12 -Dharti Investment and

Holding Private Ltd.) exceeded the maximum permissible

position limit of 101 lakh shares on November 6, 2007 when its

net short position became 104.79 lakh shares, a penalty was

imposed by the NSE on it. Therefore, the contention of the

appellant that when an entity exceeds the permissible position -180- limits only a penalty under the exchange rules is applicable has

already been implemented in the case of one entity. This is not

the case when a device, a scheme, a manipulative arrangement

of a principal-agent model was innovated and implemented by

the appellants at the back of the exchanges and other securities

market participants at great cost to the latter and for the short-

term gains of the appellants. Such a scheme, a device would

squarely fall within the ambit of Section 12A of the SEBI Act,

1992 and under the many provisions in Regulation 3 and 4 of the

PFUTP Regulations. Therefore, we have no doubt in our mind

that the route taken by the appellant RIL with the help of other

appellants/Noticees who perpetuated the scheme in cornering a

substantive portion of the market-wide position limit in the

range of 62% to 93% (depending on the dates) in the November

RPL Futures contract is manipulation of market, unknown to the

players therein. Such manipulation cannot be treated simply as a

position limit violation, as has been argued before us. It is

undoubtedly a pre-planned strategy of manipulation, with all

actions done by a single entity, RIL, and hoisted upon an

unsuspecting market, inducing other market participants to deal

with a vitiated market. 213. Further, such a manipulative scheme, device used for

cornering about 62/93 % (as on November 6/29) the market-wide

position limit, cannot be camouflaged in the garb of 'hedging'.

Every market participant having an underlying exposure is free

to hedge its position if a hedging instrument (derivative

contracts in the instance case) is available in the market. That

does not mean that it would use a scheme or device and corner a

substantial portion of the position limit thereby becoming a

powerful tool to corner and squeeze the market. Such a scheme

strikes at the very root of limits on position as a strategy for

preserving derivatives market integrity. Any hedge has to be in

tune with the underlying regulatory principles and such

regulatory principles led to the creation of tools such as client

level position limit, broker level position limit, market wide

position limit etc. in promoting and preserving market integrity.

Undermining these regulatory tools and the principles behind

them is like playing with fire. In the case of large corporates

which depend substantively on the securities market for their

funds, undermining the regulatory principles governing the

market is like cutting the branch on which they are perched.

When it comes to dealing in the securities market, it is also -182- important to distinguish between different types / categories of

participants such as promoters, speculators, hedgers, arbitragers

and so on. There are also players like day traders, hedge funds,

long terms investors etc. Here, hedging as a risk mitigating tool

can only be used to a limited extent by promoter entities, as in

the instant case the promoter's decision was to offload more than

5000 crore worth of shares in a few trading days. Further, they

had an inventory of another 70% of the shares of RPL. The

derivatives market position limits, even the market-wide

position limit, do not have the depth to hedge such huge

exposure. Not that all the listed securities are in the derivatives

segment providing the exiting/diluting promoters or other

investors in such shares any hedging option/tool. Therefore, the

submission that a promoter entity trying to offload a large

quantity of its equity holding of a subsidiary company in the

cash segment can effectively hedge their exposure in one single

contract (like the November future contracts) is a wild dream

and efforts in achieving the same through devious, manipulative

schemes would fall in a rare breed of serious PFUTP violations

Further, the scheme was hoisted on the market in a fraudulent

fashion and it continued as such. The underlying exposure limit -183- and the position limit crossed each other on November 15, 2007

and therefore even assuming its submission of hedge, as a

hedger, appellant should have reduced their position limit more

or less concomitantly, even if not on exact proportional basis,

with their underlying exposure. However, the appellants

decided to retain 7.97 crore shares as their net open position as

‚naked hedge‛ from November 16 till the expiry of the contract

on November 29. The finding that this was done deliberately to

reap the difference between the settlement price and the locked

in price cannot be faulted. Therefore, we find no defect in the

finding in the impugned order that the scheme hoisted by

appellant no. 1 and other appellants together was a fraudulent

and manipulative scheme as defined under the provisions of Section 12 of SEBI Act, 1992 and under Regulation 3 and 4 of the

PFUTP Regulations. The ratio of the Apex Court Judgment in Rakhi Trading (supra), that once the factum of manipulation

was proved no further proof was required that the investors

were induced and consequential fraud is deemed to be

established, squarely applies to the matter. Similarly, once fraud

is established in terms of engaging an artificial device to defraud

the market it becomes immaterial even whether positions limits -184- have been violated or not because through such a device (clearly

a PFUTP Regulations) the appellant had already tried to

manipulate the market whether succeeded or not. 214. Reliance placed by the appellants on the RBI Master

Circular dated 05 July, 2016, is fallacious (apart from the fact

that this circular came into effect 9 years after the violation in

question) for the following reasons. Clause b(1) of the circular

relates to the forward foreign exchange participants, clarifies

that if a hedge becomes naked either in part or fully, ‚owing to

contraction in price (due to price movement/impairment) of the

market value of the overseas direct investment, the hedge may

be allowed to continue until maturity if the customer so desires‛.

Therefore, it is only on ‚contraction of value of the investment

due to unforeseen events‛. In fact, operational guidelines

following thereafter in the same circular clearly provides as

under: However, there should be periodical review of the
 estimates. c) Foreign currency loans/bonds will be eligible
 for hedge only after final approval is accorded by
 the Reserve Bank, where such approval is
 necessary or Loan Registration Number is allotted
 by the Reserve Bank.‛

Thus, the operational guidelines of RBI provide that the maturity

of the hedge should not exceed the maturity of the underlying

transactions. Further there should be correlation, may be

approximate, between the position held in derivate and the

intended transaction. Periodic review is also required in this

regard. Only when due to unforeseen and unavoidable market

conditions as detailed earlier in the master circular, if the hedge

becomes naked the continuation of transaction in derivative is

permitted. 215. In the present case, however, we have to find the intention

of the appellant no. 1 in cornering the F&O market i.e. whether it

was a hedge transaction with innocent breach simplicitor of the -186- SEBI circular providing for position limit or with an intention to

manipulate the market. Appellant no 1 deliberately held on to

far excessive open position in the F&O segment even after sale of

substantive part of the underlying shares in cash market. Thus

the so called hedge has not ‚become naked‛ due to

‚unavoidable circumstances‛ as described in the Reserve Bank

of India Circular quoted above but was deliberately ‚made

naked‛ by holding on to the position in F& O segment far in

excess of the pending sale of shares in cash market. 216. Reliance placed by the Learned Senior Counsel for the

Appellants on the judgment of this Tribunal in Price Waterhouse

& Co. vs Securities and Exchange Board of India (2019) SCC

Online SAT 165 is distinguishable since the applicability of fraud

to a matter concerned with trading in securities is not the same

thing as to auditing entities who were not trading in securities

and hence a higher degree of evidence about inducement and

fraud was necessary in the case of an auditor as held by this

tribunal as well as in the order of the High Court of Bombay in a

related appeal filed by the Price Waterhouse & Co. -187- 217. As regards the power and scope of this Appellate Tribunal

to rectify/substitute or add reasons recorded by the original

forum i.e. WTM of SEBI in the present case, reliance of the

appellant in Mohinder Singh Gill (supra) and Sterlite (supra) has

no merit. In the case of Mohinder Singh Gill (supra) the Hon'ble

Supreme Court was hearing an appeal against the order passed

in a writ petition by Punjab and Haryana High Court concerning

a statutory order passed by the Election Commission of re-

polling in an election. This statutory order was sought to be

justified by supplementing additional reasons which were

foreign to the original order. In the circumstances in Paragraph

no. 8 the Supreme Court has observed - ‚8. The second equally relevant matter is that when a
 statutory functionary makes an order based on certain
 grounds, its validity must be judged by the reasons so
 mentioned and cannot be supplemented by fresh reasons in
 the shape of affidavit or otherwise. Otherwise, an order bad
 in the beginning may, by the time it comes to court on
 account of a challenge, get validated by additional grounds
 later brought out‛. 218. In the case of Sterlite (supra) the appellants were charged

and found guilty by respondent SEBI in two transactions being

manipulative. This Tribunal however did not find those two

transactions to be manipulative. Respondent SEBI argued that -188- those two transactions were only illustrative and there were

many more manipulative transactions. In this background this

Tribunal referred the ratio of the case of Mohinder Singh Gill

and at Paragraph no. 96 observed as under - ‚96. Shri Dada had submitted that the two transactions are
 only illustrative and there are other instances as well to
 show manipulation by the appellant. I am afraid this is a
 new finding, not found in the order. In this connection I
 fully agree with Shri Sundaram that a statutory order
 issued by an authority cannot be supplemented by fresh
 reasons. This position is clear from the following
 observation made by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in Mohinder Singh Gill 's case (supra):.........................‛ 219. Thus, in Sterlite Respondent SEBI tried to bring new

material not found in the SCN and consequently not found in

the impugned order. This tribunal therefore rejected the same.

In the case of Mohinder Sing Gill the Supreme Court was

dealing with a Writ Petition where in a statutory order of the

Election Commission of India directing re-polling was in

question. Further additional reasons beyond record were argued

in the writ petition. In the present appeal under Section 15T of

SEBI Act this Tribunal exercises appellate jurisdiction as a final

fact-finding tribunal, against a fact-finding order of the

Respondent SEBI. These powers can be equated with the powers -189- of an appellate Court as provided by Order XLI of Code of Civil

Procedure . The appellate Court in suitable case can even allow

amendment to the pleadings, accept additional evidence and

documents. The very purpose of appeal is to test the correctness

and validity of the impugned order. If the trial Court ignores

some material on record, the appellate court can take it into

consideration and arrive at its own conclusion. The powers of

the first appellate Court are co-extensive to the powers of the

trial Court. More particularly the powers of the appellate court

can be underlined by reproducing the provisions of Rule 33 of Order XLI of Code of Civil Procedure as under - ‚33. Power of Court of Appeal-- The Appellate Court shall
 have power to pass any decree and make any order which
 ought to have been passed or made and to pass or make
 such further or other decree or order as the case may
 require, and this power may be exercised by the Court
 notwithstanding that the appeal is as to part only of the
 decree and may be exercised in favour of all or any of the
 respondents or parties, although such respondents or
 parties may not have filed any appeal or objection and may,
 where there have been decrees in cross-suits or where two
 or more decrees are passed in one suit, be exercised in
 respect of all or any of the decrees, although an appeal may
 not have been filed against such decrees......‛ 220. This is also the mandate of the ratio of Clariant 's case as

explained in the case of National Securities Depository Ltd. vs.

SEBI (2017) SCC Online 256 by the Supreme Court (cited and -190- explained above in Paragraph No. 16 while dealing with the

cases of interveners) that the power of this appellate tribunal are

co-extensive with the powers of SEBI in quasi-judicial orders like

the present impugned order. While exercising appellate powers

this Tribunal is within its mandate to look into the impugned

order in its entirety. When reasons are already supplied in the

impugned order, merely a clerical mistake in not reproducing

the provision i.e. 4(2)(d) of the SEBI PFUTP Regulations 2003 in

the concluding paragraph would not amount to supplying any

fresh reasons by this tribunal. The reading of the impugned

order as a whole would show that the learned WTM had

concluded that the appellants indulged in manipulative and

fraudulent practices. As regards the 'mistake' of giving

concession regarding one position limit we are of the view that

once the learned WTM came to the conclusion that the act of the

appellants in cornering the F&O segment and the attempt to

depress the share price in cash segment during the last 10

minutes amounted to fraudulent activities, merely because a

concession of one position limit was granted on some wrong

notion would not lead us to jump to the conclusion that the

WTM concluded that the transactions in question were not -191- fraudulent. It was merely a mistake. However, in an appeal by

the party who has been granted the said concession, it is not

expedient to increase the amount of disgorgement. Therefore,

we do not deem it fit to interfere with the impugned Order. 221. Learned Senior Counsel for the Appellants has raised an

issue of bias by the Respondent. In our view however, no bias is

traceable in the impugned order. In fact, it was noted in the

SCN, respondent SEBI had come with a case that appellant nos.2

to 12 were the green horns who came into existence solely for

acting as agents for the appellant no.1 and were funded by

persons associated with the appellant no.1 through two entities

namely NMSEZ and MSEZ. However, as noted earlier learned

WTM did not even touch the said aspect in the impugned order.

Therefore, only because of an office note in which the lawyer for

the respondent advised for seeking further information from the

appellant, that too at the early stages of the proceedings, cannot

be used to conclude that the exercise of the respondent SEBI was

biased. The impugned order read as a whole would show that

in the proceedings before the WTM, while all the facts were

admitted, the issue remained only of interpretation of the facts. -192- In the circumstances, we do not find any substance in the

submission of the appellant in this regard. 222. Similarly, the contention of the appellant that they entered

the market in the last 10 minutes only to mobilize more funds as

pre-decided, by selling at a reasonably high price in the cash

segment, is devoid of any merit. It is an admitted position that

the appellants did not sell any shares in the cash segment after

November 23 till the last few minutes on November 29. It could

have remained so even on November 29 and let the market to

decide the settlement price but it woke up in the last 10 minutes

to offload a massive amount of 2.24 crore shares worth about 480

crore rupees. Juxtaposing this amount with the 4000 crore they

mobilized in 11 prior trading days will show that on average

they raised less than 400 Crore on a full trading day but raised

about 480 crores in the last 10 minutes on the expiry day of the

November futures contract. Therefore, the finding that a frenetic

effort was made by the appellant no 1 in pulling down the price

in the cash segment by offloading massive number of shares as

the second stage of manipulation cannot be faulted. Submission

that appellant no1 was placing limit orders, not pulling down or

impacting LTP, has no merit in the context that 12 out of 17 -193- trades were placed below LTP and out of which 4 trades were

placed at prices less by Rs. 7.25, 6.75, and 2.70 (twice). No

rational investor, that too while selling crores of shares, would

place sell order that much below the LTP in the absence of other

intentions behind such action. 223. The vehemently argued stand of the learned Senior

Counsel that appellant No 1, as a responsible promoter, was

executing its trading with minimum market disruption falls flat

the way the entire scheme was implemented: adoption of the

principal- agent model for cornering position limits and the last

10 minutes trading in the cash segment. If the appellant was a

responsible promoter, the appellant would have spread its sales,

of the 5% equity of RPL they were planning to offload, across a

much longer period. The decision to sell shares was admittedly

taken on March 29, 2007. A well calibrated strategy of sale would

have involved a reasonably long period during which they could

have disposed off those shares in relatively smaller lots. At the

same time, they could have also hedged those positions in the

futures contract of multiple months (after all there were other

than November contracts running concurrently) without

violating any position limits or hoisting a manipulative scheme -194- for the same. We do not want to convey the message that we are

tutoring the appellants on dealing in the market, when they are

the experts and we do not have any experience for the same; but

we are forced to explain in the face of the strong contentions that

the appellant has been responsible promoters and were fully

complying with all applicable laws and regulations. If they were

responsible market players, they would not have concentrated

100% of their trading activities in both the cash and F&O

segments in one month and instead spread it across multiple

months. 224. Simulation exercises produced by the appellants before us

is without any merit. Tables showing what could have been

done if the appellants had sold shares on other select days or if

they had squared off their open positions on other days instead

of holding till the expiry day more money could have been

earned etc. have no merit since such events did not actually

happen. It is a known fact that large transactions themselves

would move the market (supply and demand) and the market

prices. Therefore, on the basis of assumptions we cannot predict

market movements with certainty. In any event those actions

would not have erased the first leg of manipulation; that of -195- taking a huge net short sell position of 9.92 crore shares of RPL

by using a scheme of engaging 12 front entities masquerading as

independent participants in the derivatives market. Similarly

there is no merit in appellants' alternative contention and

calculation of actual profits made on 29 November, at a small

sum following a methodology they only invented. We find no

error in the calculation of profits made by Appellant No 1, as

given in the impugned Order. 225. It was also contended before us that Appellants' holding of

the net short sale position in the November Futures segment

increased from 62% to 93% because other investors squared off

their position and therefore, relative share of the appellants

increased. We agree; but the question of why did the appellants

kept a short sell position of 7.97 Crore shares intact to be expired

on 29 November when their 'hedging' requirement was only

that for 4.45 Crore shares from 16th November? Such an act

cannot escape the inevitable conclusion as held in the impugned

order, that the appellants were involved in a manipulative,

devious scheme. On an observation made by the WTM in the

impugned order that appellant No 1 did not have a hedging

policy/strategy in response to the appellant's submission on -196- hedging we are told that compulsory hedging policy was

introduced only in 2016 and as such the WTM is even ignorant

of facts. However, we note that the statement is not on a legal

requirement, but a practical business sense for a big Company

who tries to enter the market to sell huge stakes of a subsidiary

and deciding to hedge ought to have a well-documented

hedging strategy, irrespective of whether there is a mandating

law or not. 226. In none of the arguments / submissions the appellant No 1

has clarified to us on why it was in a tearing hurry to do

everything relating to sale of the 5% of their equity holding in

one trading month i.e. November 2007, though according to it

the decision to sell shares was taken long back in March 2007,

and the sale could have been spread for several months, except

stating that share price of RPL was overvalued in the findings by

three analysts. It is an irony that outside analysts, who basically

produce their reports for general investors, and not for

promoters who are insiders, knew more than the insiders and

the insiders placed their full bet on such analyst reports. Even

ignoring this irony; the first analyst report came in September,

2007 and Appellant 1 could have started trading soon thereafter -197- itself because the board decision and authorization etc. were

admittedly already there. Moreover, it is also important to note

that prices did not fall as predicted by these analysts even after

November 2007. Prices continued to be in the range of Rs. 225-

250 during December, 2007 and till 21 January 2008, whereafter

it came to the 200 level. Therefore, there was a window of at

least four months available after the analysts reports, when

reasonable price was ruling. Further, as per the Board decision

of RIL dated 29 March, 2007 funds were needed to be raised only

within 2 years. For the next 7 months appellant no. 1 did nothing

as regards the disposal of shares of RPL. All of a sudden, they

decided to act in a hurry in the month of November 2007, and

only in November, lock, stock and barrel. They decided to sell

the entire 22.5 crore shares (5%) and to take a short sell position,

in the name of hedge, in the futures segment, all in November

itself as if there was not even a December, 2007 for RPL. Even if

it was assessed, based on outside analysts' reports, that there

would be no spring, a long winter was still available. Therefore,

the entire argument of the need to compress the disposal of 5%

shares to the month of November 2007 alone and therefore the

need for 'aggregation' of short sell position in the futures -198- segment, again only in November 2007 contract, is devoid of any

merit and does not gel with any realistic explanation of the facts

and applicable law. Therefore, finding in the impugned order

that submissions of the appellants such as need for 'hedging'

and 'needing funds now' etc. are afterthoughts cannot be

faulted. 227. Contention of the appellant is that provisions of the SEBI

Act could not have been invoked for at worst a violation of

position limits, which are part of exchange byelaws and

circulars. In the aforesaid paragraphs we have already held that

cornering about 62% / 93% of the market-wide position limit by

one entity through a manipulative scheme or device is not the

same thing as exceeding the position limit by a client in a

transparent manner, visible to the exchange/clearing

corporation/house. Therefore, the finding in the impugned order

that it is a rare case of violation of section 12A of the SEBI Act

and Regulation 3 and 4 of the PFUTP Regulations is perfectly in

order. Further, it is an established fact that SEBI administers the

SCRA, 1956, SEBI Act, 1992 , Depositories Act, 1996 and the

delegated provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 /2013.

Therefore, if the nature of the violations specified in any -199- legislations spills over to the mandate under another legislation,

SEBI is fully within its rights to invoke the provisions of both/all

those legislations. In the instant matter, therefore, when it was

held that the position limit violation had been achieved through

a dubious, manipulative scheme or a device, such an act would

squarely fall within the provisions of SEBI Act and PFUTP

Regulations. We, therefore, find no error or mistake on the part

of the WTM in invoking the relevant provisions of SCRA, SEBI

Act and the PFUTP Regulations, 2003 and in passing the Order

under section 11 and 11B of SEBI Act accordingly. 228. It was contended that disgorgement is a

punishment/penalty, while powers granted to SEBI under Section 11B of SEBI Act are remedial in nature. Therefore, no

order for disgorgement could have been passed as the same is a

penalty imposed on the appellant no. 1. We do not agree with

this contention at all. In the Securities Laws (Amendment) Act,

2014 effected from July 18, 2013, it is clearly stated that ‚power

of disgorgement, an amount equivalent to the wrongful gain

made or loss averted by such contravention‛ was always with

SEBI. For facility we reproduce the text and footnote of the

amended provision as follows: IA of the Depositories Act, 1996,] as the case may be,
shall be credited to the Investor Protection and
Education Fund established by the Board and such
amount shall be utilised by the Board in accordance
with the regulations made under this Act.]

Footnote 32: Inserted by the Securities Laws (Amendment)
Act, 2014 w.e.f. 18-07-2013. 42[Power to issue directions 43[and levy penalty].
11B. 44[(1)[ Save as otherwise provided in section 11 , if
after making or causing to be made an enquiry, the Board is
satisfied that it is necessary,-- (i) in the interest of
investors, or orderly development of securities market; or (ii)
to prevent the affairs of any intermediary or other persons
referred to in section 12 being conducted in a manner
detrimental to the interest of investors or securities market;
or (iii) to secure the proper management of any such
intermediary or person, it may issue such directions,-- (a)
to any person or class of persons referred to in section 12 , or
associated with the securities market; or (b) to any company
in respect of matters specified in section 11A , as may be
appropriate in the interests of investors in securities and the
securities market.]

45[Explanation.--For the removal of doubts, it is
hereby declared that the power to issue directions
under this section shall include and always be deemed
to have been included the power to direct any person,
who made profit or averted loss by indulging in any
transaction or activity in contravention of the
provisions of this Act or regulations made thereunder,
to disgorge an amount equivalent to the wrongful gain -201- made or loss averted by such contravention.]
 (emphasis added)

 45 Inserted by the Securities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2014,
 w.e.f. 18-07-2013. 229. As per the afore-quoted provisions of the SEBI Act ,

disgorgement is an amount equivalent to the wrongful gain made or

loss averted and therefore it is an equitable remedy; not a penal

action. Moreover, equity is further served when the disgorged

amount is credited to the Investor Protection Fund of SEBI, for

the benefit of the market participants, particularly small

investors; not to the Consolidated Fund of India as in the case of

fine/penalty. Therefore, both the contentions that disgorgement

is a penalty and SEBI does not have the power to impose

disgorgement under section 11B of SEBI Act are contrary to the

expressly stated provisions of the SEBI Act and therefore have

no merit and are rejected forthwith. 230. Further, fact that disgorgement of Rs. 447.27 crore

(+interest) imposed on the appellant no. 1 is a sizable sum does

not make that direction harsh both because (1) it is only a

remedial action and (2) what is disgorged is only what has been

gorged by contravention of the specified laws. Nothing has been -202- taken out of the appellant's own funds/assets in the process.

Since it is only an equitable remedy there is no question of that

being harsh or a penal action. 231. Given the aforesaid reasons, appeal lacks any merit and is

hereby dismissed. No orders on costs. Appellant no. 1 is directed

to make payment of the disgorged amount of Rs. 447.27 Crore

along with simple interest calculated at the rate of 12% p.a. with

effect from November 29, 2007 till the actual date of payment to

SEBI within 60 days from the date of this Order. 232. Before parting we would also like to state that preparing

and finalizing this Order took some time on account of the

unexpected closure of the office of this Tribunal and other major

disruptions on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, voluminous

documents, including extensive written submissions, as well as

differences of views within the three-member Bench. Dr. C.K.G Nair
 Member

 Justice M. T Joshi
 Judicial Member

05.11.2020 -203- 233. In view of the majority opinion, the appeal is dismissed

with no order as to costs. Appellant no. 1 is directed to make

payment of the disgorged amount of Rs. 447.27 Crore along with

simple interest calculated at the rate of 12% p.a. with effect from

November 29, 2007 till the actual date of payment to SEBI within

60 days from the date of this Order. . 234. This Order has been pronounced through video conference

due to Covid-19 pandemic, since the matter had been reserved

only a few weeks prior to the lockdown. At this stage it is not

possible to sign a copy of this order nor a certified copy of this

order could be issued by the registry. In these circumstances, this

order will be digitally signed by the Presiding Officer on behalf

of the bench and all concerned parties are directed to act on the

digitally signed copy of this order. Parties will act on production

of a digitally signed copy sent by fax and/or email. Justice Tarun Agarwala
 Presiding Officer Digitally signed by TARUN AGARWAL DN: c=IN, o=PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT UTTAR PRADESH,

 TARUN AGARWAL
 postalCode=221505, st=Uttar Pradesh,
 2.5.4.20=30fcf68685192bbc53e6ff1608a83fb3881de7ac2ab7954d509c85e
 d6e0f7c41,
 serialNumber=095f8b286bb0b1cd07ff676611f4f5e7999727d404aa38ca42
 2f9d3529bdb8a3, cn=TARUN AGARWAL
 Date: 2020.11.05 15:24:42 +05'30' Dr. C.K.G Nair
 Member -204- Justice M. T Joshi
 Judicial Member

05.11.2020
dg & mb