Shri C.A. Sundaram, Senior Advocate with Shri Shyam Mehta, Advocate
Shri Vinay Chauhan, Advocate and Ms. Rohini Musa, Advocate for the
Appellant

Shri J.J. Bhatt, Senior Advocate alongwith Shri Chirag Balsara, Advocate and
Shri Ravi Hedge, Advocate for the Respondent

CORAM

 Justice N. K. Sodhi, Presiding Officer
 C. Bhattacharya, Member
 R. N. Bhardwaj, Member

Per: Justice N. K. Sodhi, Presiding Officer

 This appeal filed under section 15T of the Securities and

Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (hereinafter referred to as the Act)

is directed against the order dated May 26, 2006 passed by the whole

time member of the of the Securities and Exchange Board of India

(hereinafter referred to as the Board) directing amongst others, the

appellant not to act as a depository participant pending inquiry and

passing of final orders except for acting on the instructions of existing

beneficial owners. The appellant as a stock broker has also been

directed not to undertake any proprietary trades in securities till the

passing of the final order in the inquiry. Facts giving rise to this

appeal may first be noticed. The issue regarding alleged manipulations in Initial Public

Offerings (IPOs) of various companies had been engaging the

attention of the Board for some time. It received some information

regarding the alleged abuse and misuse of the IPO allotment process.

As a part of its ongoing surveillance activity, the Board initiated a

probe and also advised the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and the

National Stock Exchange (NSE) to examine the dealings in the shares

issued through IPOs before the shares are listed on the stock

exchanges. The aforesaid two exchanges submitted their preliminary

observations on the IPO of Yes Bank Limited (YBL) in which it was

hinted that there could be a possibility of large scale off market

transactions immediately following the date of allotment and prior to

the listing of shares on the stock exchanges. The Board then carried

out a preliminary scrutiny by calling for data from the depositories

and the Registrar to the Issue. It found that certain entities had

cornered IPO shares reserved for retail applicants by making

applications in the retail category through the medium of thousands

of fictitious/ benami IPO applicants with each application being for

small value so as to be eligible for allotment under the retail category.

It was also discovered that subsequent to the receipt of IPO

allotment, fictitious/benami allottees transferred the shares to those

who controlled those accounts who in turn transferred the shares to

the persons financing the transactions i.e. those who made available

the funds for executing the game plan. The financiers in turn sold

the shares on the first day of listing thereby making a windfall gain

since the price of allotment was less than the listing price in view of

the booming market. In nutshell, a handful of persons virtually

monopolized the retail allotment by elbowing out the genuine 3 investors. The Board found that large number of multiple

dematerialized accounts with common addresses had been opened by

a few entities. By order dated 15th December, 2005 passed in the

case of YBL, Ms.Roopalben Nareshbhai Panchal and Devangi

Dipakbhai Panchal, amongst others, had been directed not to buy,

sell or deal in the shares of YBL and in other ensuing IPOs directly

or indirectly. National Securities Depository Ltd., (NSDL) which is

one of the two depositories in the country was also directed to

undertake a comprehensive inspection of the appellant herein which

is one of its depository participants particularly focusing on the

systems and procedures, if any, put in place by the appellant for

implementing the "know your client" (KYC) norms which the

participants are required to follow. A reference had also been made

to the Reserve Bank of India to examine the role of Bharat Overseas

Bank and Vijaya Bank in opening bank accounts of benami entities

which were funding their IPO applications. Soon after the passing of the order in the case of YBL, the

Board examined the dealings in another major IPO of Infrastructure

Development Finance Co. Ltd. (IDFC) and found that the very same

players were suspected to have played a major role in cornering the

shares meant for the small retail investors. In pursuance to the

directions issued during the course of the investigations in the case

of YBL, NSDL and the other depository - Central Depository Services

(India)Ltd. (CDSL) had submitted their inspection reports to the

Board observing therein that the appellant as a participant had

opened accounts of investors by obtaining the supporting documents

mechanically and had not taken proper precautions to ascertain the

identity and genuineness of the persons. The depositories also 4 observed in their reports that the appellant had entirely relied upon

the documents issued by the scheduled commercial banks submitted

by the investors as documents in support of "proof of identity" and

"proof of address" even though the same persons opened their

beneficial owner accounts in different names. The reports also

mentioned that the appellant had not exercised proper care and

precautions while processing the debit instruction slips for transfer of

securities and that such slackness and deficiencies in procedures

and manner of conducting the depository participant operations were

not in conformity with the procedures prescribed by the Board and

the two depositories. On a consideration of the reports received from

the two depositories and also the material that it could gather during

the course of the investigations, the Board found that IDFC had

come out with an IPO in July, 2005 and the retail portion of the issue

was oversubscribed by 5.27 times. The shares were credited to the

allottees on August 5 and 6,2005. The shares of IDFC were listed on

stock exchanges on August 12,2005. On August 8, 2005 i.e. prior to

the listing on stock exchanges, Roopalben Panchal received in her

demat account with CDSL 266 shares each from 14,790 demat

accounts aggregating to a total of 39,43,184 shares in off market

transactions from 14,807 demat account holders. The Board found

that out of these 14,807 demat account holders as many as 4946 had

a common address of Ahmedabad and another 4990 account holders

had another address in Ahmedabad which was the same. Another

4871 account holders had a different common address in

Ahmedabad. All the 14,807 demat account holders had their bank

accounts with Bharat Overseas Bank Ltd. Ahmedabad and demat

account with the appellant herein. The record further indicated that 5 all these demat accounts had been opened by the appellant on July

15 and 16, 2005 when the issue opened on July 15, 2005. A similar

pattern was observed in respect of Roopalben Panchal's demat

account with NSDL wherein also she had received a total of

32,61,426 shares from 12,257 demat accounts in off market

transactions. All these demat accounts were with the appellant. It

also transpired that subsequent to the receipt of shares in her demat

account from thousands of entities, Roopalben Panchal in turn

transferred the shares to various entities prior to August 12, 2005 i.e.

the date of listing of shares on the stock exchanges. Apart from

Roopalben Panchal, a similar pattern was observed in the case of

Sugandh, Purshottam Budhwani and Manojdev Seksaria who

according to the appellant, were its unregistered IPO sub brokers

(IPO application collecting agents). It may be mentioned that all the

common addresses on the IPO applications and in the demat

accounts were those of the so called sub brokers. From the material

available with the Board it prima facie concluded that the appellant

as a participant had knowledge about the fictitious nature of such

multiple accounts. The Board also took note of the fact that both

NSDL and CDSL had directed the appellant not to open new demat

accounts till the matter was thoroughly investigated. In the light of

the material available with the Board it passed an order on 12.1.2006

in the case of IDFC IPO the relevant portion of which reads as under: In view of the above findings the Board in its order dated

12.1.2006 issued ex parte ad interim directions as under: genuine dematerialized accounts are opened by

them. Karvy-DP and Pratik-DP shall submit a

detailed report to SEBI narrating the actions

taken by them in this regard and also give an

undertaking that the SEBI's above directions

have been fully complied with. I further direct 9 that Karvy-DP and Pratik-DP shall not open new

 dematerialized accounts till the submission of

 above report and undertaking to SEBI and

 obtaining a no-objection from SEBI for accepting

 fresh business as DP. ............ ..............................

 ............ ..............................

 ................................ 12.12. Further the entities/persons against

 whom this direction is issued may file their

 objections, if any, to this order within 15 days

 from the date of this order and, if they so desire,

 avail themselves of an opportunity of personal

 hearing at the Securities and Exchange Board of

 India, Head Office, First Floor, Mittal Court, B

 Wing, Nariman Point, Mumbai - 400 021 on a

 date and at a time to be fixed on a specific

 request, to be received in this behalf from the

 entities/persons within 15 days from the date of

 this order. Even before the aforesaid order could be issued, the appellant herein

addressed a detailed communication dated 12.1.2006 to the Board

by way of a voluntary action taken report and brought to the notice of

the Board the various steps which, according to it, it had taken in

the light of the queries made by the Board during the course of the 10 investigations in the YBL case and also in the light of the

 observations made by the two depositories in their reports submitted

 to the Board. It appears that after passing the aforesaid order on January

 12, 2006 in the case of IDFC IPO, the Board carried out inspection of

 the books of accounts, records and various documents maintained by

 the appellant. During the course of the inspection the Board,

 according to it, collected sufficient incriminating documents and the

 inspection raised a doubt in its mind as to whether the appellant had

 really failed to get alerted to the abuse of its systems by the so called

 sub brokers or whether there was active collusion of the appellant

 with its clients for abusing the IPO process and sharing the gains

 arising from the same. The Board prima facie concluded as under: The Board also found that in order to seemingly comply with the KYC

norms, the bank letterheads were forged and photographs were affixed on 11 both the bank letters and the demat application forms and it further

concluded that the appellant had done post event documentation as an

after thought to cover up its lapses and to set the records straight for a

possible inquiry by the Board. In view of these prima facie findings another

order was passed on April 27, 2006 issuing amongst others, the following

direction to the appellant: The Board did not find the explanation given by the appellant to be

convincing in view of the fact that thousands of demat accounts had

been opened with common addresses by fictitious persons and also

in view of the fact that more than 10,000 accounts were opened in

one day. The Board also found that the appellant as a depository

participant had not exercised due diligence while establishing the

identity of the persons to ensure the safety and integrity of the

depository system. The explanation furnished by the appellant that it

had placed blind faith in its IPO sub brokers was not accepted, as

according to the Board it was an after thought because the primary

responsibility in this regard was that of the appellant as a depository

participant. The Board also noticed that the appellant had expanded

its business by exploiting its relationship with its sub brokers which

was a tangible gain. Having considered the explanation of the

appellant and from the data relating to the demat accounts closed by

the appellant, the Board concluded that numerous demat accounts

with common addresses had been opened and the common addresses

were those of the appellant's sub brokers referred to hereinabove

and, therefore, it observed that the prima facie findings in this regard

had not been rebutted by the appellant. The Board had also

recorded a prima facie finding in its order dated 27.4.2006 that the

appellant had forged bank letters to make it appear that it had

complied with the KYC norms and that finding too has not been

displaced. The Board observed that "in view of the substantial

prima facie findings of misconduct as a DP, the entity KSBL has

conducted themselves in a manner unbecoming of a registered

securities market intermediary." In view of the aforesaid conclusions arrived at by the Board in its

order dated May 26, 2006 it issued the following directions: ( c).............. .........." An inquiry officer has been appointed to conduct an inquiry under

the inquiry regulations which has just begun. Feeling aggrieved by

these directions, the appellant has filed the present appeal. The learned Senior Counsel for the appellant strenuously

contended that the impugned order is punitive in nature and without

jurisdiction in as much as the appellant has been restrained from

opening new accounts pending the outcome of the inquiry under the

inquiry regulations and this, according to him, amounts to an

interim punishment which power the Board does not possess.

According to the learned senior counsel an intermediary could be 15 kept out of the market only by passing a regulatory order under sections 11 or 11B which is not the case here. He urged that sections 11 and 11B are a code by themselves and the inquiry

contemplated therein is only for the purpose of passing a regulatory

order and that such an order could not be linked with the outcome of

the inquiry. On merits it is contended on behalf of the appellant that

even though very large number of demat accounts had been opened

with the appellant in the name of fictitious persons, they were all

closed/frozen as per the directions of the depositories and the Board

after verifying the genuineness of the account holders. These demat

accounts were opened, according to the appellant, in the last two

years with most of them being opened during the periods coinciding

with various IPOs. It is the categoric stand of the appellant that the

account opening application forms were brought by the so called

different IPO sub brokers with an introductory letter from the client's

banker in support of the proof of identity and proof of address. Even

though the letters from the bank later turned out to be forged, those

appeared on the face of it to be genuine and there was no occasion

for the appellant to suspect the bonafides of the applicants whose

identification had been certified by their banker. Moreover, the said

bank certificates were computer generated and did not give rise to

any suspicion. He also contended that the Board has drawn a wrong

inference from the downloading of data by the appellant from CDSL

during July, 2005. The Board had inferred that by frequently

accessing the data base of CDSL in July 2005 the appellant had

culled out the particulars of bank branches and addresses which it

later used in fabricating the bank certificates. According to the 16 learned senior counsel, the appellant downloaded the data for its

various business needs in the normal course of business. He

contended that it was not possible for it to foresee in July itself

about the events which were discovered in November-December,

2005. The learned senior counsel, therefore, forcefully submitted

that the Board's inference in this regard is totally wrong and

unwarranted. The bank letters were accepted by the appellant as

according to it those were according to the KYC norms prescribed by

the depositories and the Board. As regards the different demat

accounts of the same account holders having different photographs,

the appellant submitted that there was no occasion for it to suspect

the genuineness of those photographs as there was no mechanism to

identify or cull out the same photographs as they appeared in the

subsequent or different lots of applications. What is contended on

behalf of the appellant is that close to an IPO, applications for

opening new demat accounts were received in thousands and those

were dealt with by different persons in different lots and that when

the appellant learnt about the fictitious accounts the same were

closed. The learned senior counsel very strongly contended that the

appellant itself had been defrauded by the sub brokers in the matter

of opening of new demat accounts close to different IPOs and that

when all this was discovered, it (appellant) besides closing the

fictitious accounts filed a criminal complaint against the sub brokers

which is pending in the Court of IIIrd Addl. Chief Metropolitan

Magistrate at Hyderabad. The learned senior counsel urged that the

Board was not justified in recording a prima facie finding that the

appellant had colluded in the opening of fictitious accounts when it

itself had been defrauded by the so called sub brokers or business 17 associates who had committed breach of trust with the intention to

cheat the genuine investors. In the alternative the learned senior

counsel contended that even if it be assumed that the bank letters

were forged, even then according to the Board, this was done in order

to make it appear as if the appellant had complied with KYC norms

when in fact they had been totally disregarded. The gravamen of the

charge, according to the appellant, is that it had done post event

documentation as an after thought to set the record straight with a

view to cover up its lapses in not complying with the KYC norms and

that the charge is not that the appellant colluded in the opening of

demat accounts. This charge, according to the learned senior

counsel, only amounts to non compliance of the KYC norms and is

not that serious so as to warrant a direction to the appellant not to

open new demat accounts till the completion of the inquiry. It was

also contended on behalf of the appellant that fictitious demat

accounts with common addresses were opened not only with the

appellant but also with other depository participants like HDFC,

IDBI, ICICI etc. and that the practice of using IPO sub brokers was

then prevailing in the market and was well established and

recognized. It was also submitted that the requirement at the

relevant time was to provide only the correspondence address in

NSDL and either correspondence address or permanent address in

CDSL and the sub brokers gave their own address as correspondence

address and this according to the appellants, was not an unusual

practice. The appellant submits that the issue of common address

was a systemic issue and is not peculiar to the appellant alone. The

appellant also seriously disputed the finding of the Board that it had

introduced 50 additional names which were added by enclosing a list 18 with the account opening form of its sub broker (Roopalben Panchal)

whose transactions were to be included in the sub broker's bank

account. It was also contended that the Board was in error in

concluding that delivery instruction slips (DIS) had been generated by

the appellant to make up the record by conveniently using the credit

identification number (CIN) along with the debit identification

number (DIN). Reference was made to the instruction slips for

delivery in support of this plea. The learned senior counsel for the

appellant further submitted that Karvy Consultants Limited, a

company of the Karvy group which is a non banking finance company

had provided IPO funding to the investors in the normal course of its

business and that there was nothing wrong in its receiving back the

amount from the account of Roopalben Panchal which was towards

the return of loan in the case of another IPO (Amar Remedies). In

view of the aforesaid submissions, the appellant contends that even

though fictitious demat accounts were opened by a large number of

depositors, the appellant had not connived in the opening of those

accounts and that the sub brokers had cheated the appellant itself in

the opening of those accounts. Shri J. J. Bhatt, learned senior counsel appearing for the

Board, on the other hand, was emphatic in contending that section

11 , in so far as an intermediary of the market is concerned, gives

power to the Board to adopt interim measures in the interests of the

investors or the securities market pending completion of an

investigation or inquiry. According to the learned senior counsel, section 11 also gives power to pass final orders against registered

intermediaries if there was no suspension or cancellation of the

certificate of registration under section 12(3) of the Act. He also 19 submitted that the very nature of the measures prescribed in section

11(4)(a) to (f) would show that these are interim in nature and that no

final order could be passed thereunder. Final order qua

intermediaries could be passed, according to Shri Bhatt under section 11B after ordering an inquiry under that provision or under

the inquiry regulations. Any interim and/or final directions against

non intermediaries could, however, be passed under section 11(4) read with section 11B after ordering an inquiry under that provision.

According to Shri Bhatt the word inquiry in section 11(4) would mean

an inquiry either under section 11B or under Chapter VIA or under

the inquiry regulations framed under section 12(3) of the Act and that

while such an inquiry is pending the Board could, according to him,

pass interim orders pending final decision in that inquiry. Shri Bhatt

nevertheless argued that orders under sections 11 and 11B could be

passed only for the development of the securities market or to protect

the interests of the investors or to prevent the affairs of any

intermediary from being conducted in a manner detrimental to the

interests of investors or to the securities market. On merits the learned senior counsel for the Board pointed out

that it is not in dispute that thousands of benami/fictitious demat

accounts were opened with various depository participants and that

85% of such accounts were opened with the appellant. He also

referred to the "Idea Paper" to contend that the appellant was aware

of its responsibilities as a participant and that it was required to

carry out due diligence itself and that when we look at the averments

made by Karvy in the complaint filed by it against its sub brokers it is

clear that in order to gloss over its active or passive complicity in the

fraud it has sought to transfer the responsibility of due diligence to 20 its so called IPO sub brokers who were not the regulated entities.

Shri Bhatt also contended that there was a tie up between the

appellant and Bharat Overseas Bank for funding various IPOs and

that the two of them are trying to shift the blame on each other. His

argument is that it was for the appellant to ensure that the demat

accounts were duly opened after complying with the KYC norms

which admittedly, the appellant failed to comply with in respect of

thousands of accounts opened through its IPO sub brokers. He also

referred to the large number of accounts with common addresses of

the sub brokers. According to Shri J. J. Bhatt several accounts were

opened on the basis of forged bank letters which forgery could be

detected by a mere cursory look at those letters. He pointed out that

the particulars of bank letters matched those in the depository

accounts but in many cases they did not match with the records of

the banks which purportedly issued those letters. The case of the

Board is that in addition to the total failure on the part of the

appellant to observe KYC norms, the latter introduced the bank

accounts in suspicious circumstances. The learned senior counsel

referred to some instances including the case of Jayshree Doshi and

pointed out that her signatures on different forms did not tally with

the signatures on her PAN (Permanent Account Number) card issued

by the Income Tax Department. He argued that genuine demat

accounts were used to open fictitious accounts with banks on the

introduction of the appellant and on the strength of these bank

accounts other fictitious demat accounts were opened with the

appellant. It was also argued that the manner in which the appellant

filled up, issued and maintained delivery instruction slips clearly

points out to the appellant's prima facie complicity and in any case to 21 its culpable negligence in performing its duties as a participant.

Reference was made to the loose delivery slips issued by the

appellant which, according to the respondent, did not comply with

the guidelines issued by the Board. In view of these submissions it

was contented on behalf of the Board that the impugned orders dated

27th April, 2006 and May 26, 2006 are based on relevant

considerations and being reasonable were liable to be upheld. The

learned senior counsel for the respondent relied upon the Division

Bench Judgement of the Bombay High Court in Anand Rathi vs.

Securities and Exchange Board of India (2001) 32 SCL 227 to

contend that the Board as a regulator of the capital market has

powers to take necessary measures to protect the interests of the

investors of the securities market and, therefore, it is fully competent

to pass interim order in aid of the final orders. He also referred to

the unreported decision of the Gujarat High Court in Rajan

Vasudevbhai Dhapki & Ors. vs. Securities and Exchange Board of

India Special Civil Application No.10523 of 2006 decided on

17.7.2006 and urged that the ex parte order dated 27th April, 2006

passed by the Board had been upheld. We have heard the learned senior counsel for the parties. Their

arguments have been lengthy and the record is voluminous.

However, the issue that arises for our consideration is - Has the

Board erred in restraining the appellant from opening fresh demat

accounts and from carrying on proprietary trades as a stock broker

pending inquiry. To answer this question, it is necessary to notice

the historical sequence of events and the relevant provisions of the

Act. To promote orderly and healthy growth of the securities market

and for investors' protection, the Board was established in the year

1988 through a Government resolution. It had been monitoring the

activities of stock exchanges, mutual funds, merchant bankers etc.

Since then the capital market witnessed tremendous growth by the

increasing participation of the public. Investors' confidence in the

capital market had to be sustained by ensuring their protection. To

achieve this object, the Act was enacted to vest the Board with

statutory powers to deal effectively with all matters relating to capital

market. Section 3 of the Act provides for the establishment of the

Board which is a body corporate and its composition and

management are provided for in section 4 . The procedure which it

follows and the manner of holding its meetings is provided in Chapter

II. Chapter III deals with transfer of assets, liabilities etc. of the then

existing Securities and Exchange Board to the newly constituted

statutory Board. Chapter IV is significant and deals with its powers

and functions. Section 11 of the Act which finds mention in this

chapter provides that the duty of the Board is to protect the interests

of investors in securities and to promote the development of and to

regulate the securities market by such measures as it thinks fit. The

words in italics indicate the width of power conferred on the Board by

the Parliament. It has been empowered to adopt any 'measure' that

a situation may demand. Sub section (2) illustratively enumerates

the regulatory and promotional measures which the Board may take.

Since the Board has to regulate the market, section 12 appearing in

Chapter V provides for the registration of intermediaries such as

stock brokers, sub brokers, share transfer agents and others. Under

sub section (3) of section 12 , the Board has power to suspend or 23 cancel a certificate of registration in such manner as may be

determined by the regulations. In this regard the Board has framed

the inquiry regulations for imposing minor and major penalties

including the penalty of suspension or cancellation of the certificate

of registration. Chapter VI deals with the grants by the Central

Government to the Board and its finance, accounts and audit.

Chapter VIA which was introduced with effect from 25.1.1995 by Act

9 of 1995 makes a provision for adjudication and imposition of

monetary penalties on the erring intermediaries and other market

participants. Sections 15K to 15Z contained in Chapter VI-B were

also introduced in the year 1995 and they provide for appeal to the

Securities Appellate Tribunal against the orders passed by the Board

and for a further appeal to the Supreme Court under section 15Z .

Chapter VII which is the last chapter in the statute deals with

miscellaneous matters including power of the Central Government to

issue directions to the Board on questions of policy. The Central

Government has also power to supercede the Board. Power has been

given to the Central Government to frame rules to carry out the

purposes of the Act and power has also been given to the Board to

make regulations in this regard. The rules and regulations so

framed are required to be laid before the Parliament. Since the answer to the question posed hereinabove depends

on the interpretation of sections 11 and 11B , it is necessary to

reproduce them at this stage: (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
provisions, the measures referred to therein may provide
for-- (a) regulating the business in stock exchanges and
 any other securities markets; (b) registering and regulating the working of stock
 brokers, sub-brokers, share transfer agents,
 bankers to an issue, trustees of trust deeds,
 registrars to an issue, merchant bankers,
 underwriters, portfolio managers, investment
 advisers and such other intermediaries who may be
 associated with securities markets in any manner;
 (ba)registering and regulating the working of the
 depositories, participants, custodians of securities,
 foreign institutional investors, credit rating
 agencies and such other intermediaries as the
 Board may, by notification, specify in this behalf; (c) registering and regulating the working of venture
 capital funds and collective investment schemes,
 including mutual funds; (d) promoting and regulating self-regulatory
 organisations; (e) prohibiting fraudulent and unfair trade practices
 relating to securities markets; (f) promoting investors' education and training of
 intermediaries of securities markets; (g) prohibiting insider trading in securities; (h) regulating substantial acquisition of shares and
 take over of companies; (i) calling for information from, undertaking
 inspection, conducting inquiries and audits of the
 stock exchanges, mutual funds, other persons
 associated with the securities market,
 intermediaries and self-regulatory organisations in
 the securities market; (ia) calling for information and record from any bank
 or any other authority or board or corporation
 established or constituted by or under any Central,
 State or Provincial Act in respect of any transaction
 in securities which is under investigation or inquiry
 by the Board; (j) performing such functions and exercising such
 powers under the provisions of the Securities
 Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), as
 may be delegated to it by the Central Government; (k) levying fees or other charges for carrying out the
 purposes of this section; (l) conducting research for the above purposes; (la) calling from or furnishing to any such agencies, as
 may be specified by the Board, such information as
 may be considered necessary by it for the efficient
 discharge of its functions; (m) performing such other functions as may be
 prescribed. (2A) Without prejudice to the provisions contained in
sub-section (2), the Board may take measures to
undertake inspection of any book, or register, or other
document or record of any listed public company or a
public company (not being intermediaries referred to in section 12 ) which intends to get its securities listed on
any recognised stock exchange where the Board has
reasonable grounds to believe that such company has
been indulging in insider trading or fraudulent and unfair
trade practices relating to securities market. (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law
for the time being in force while exercising the powers
under clause (i) or clause (ia) of sub-section (2) or sub-
section (2A), the Board shall have the same powers as are
vested in a civil court under the Code of Civil Procedure ,
1908 (5 of 1908), while trying a suit, in respect of the
following matters, namely :-- sections (1), (2), (2A) and (3) and section 11B , the Board
may, by an order, for reasons to be recorded in writing, in
the interests of investors or securities market, take any of
the following measures, either pending investigation or
inquiry or on completion of such investigation or inquiry,
namely:-- The primary function and duty of the Board is to protect

the interests of the investors in securities and to regulate the 27 securities market. The preamble to the Act which declares the

dominant purpose also makes it clear that the Board has been

established for this purpose. This duty is performed under sections

11 and 11B of the Act which are the very soul and heart of it. These

two sections are the very reason for the existence of the Board. The

Act as originally enacted in the year 1992 had only sub sections (1)

and (2) in section 11 . The Act and the Securities Contracts

(Regulation) Act, 1956 then governed the operation of the capital

market. Under section 11 , as it then stood, the Board could regulate

the securities market by taking such measures as it thought fit but

it felt handicapped when it came to issuing directions to any market

intermediary or persons associated with the securities market. On

the basis of the past experience of the Board, a need was felt to

amend the Act to enable it to issue directions, whenever necessary,

for the purpose of protecting the interests of investors and the

securities market. Parliament by Act 9 of 1995 introduced section

11B with effect from 25.1.1995. This section enables the Board to

issue directions to any intermediary of the securities market or any

other person associated therewith if it thinks it is necessary in the

interests of investors or orderly development of securities market or

to prevent the affairs of any intermediary or any other person referred

to in section 12 from being conducted in a manner detrimental to the

interests of investors or securities market or to secure the proper

management of any such intermediary. For regulating the securities

market and with a view to protect the same, the Board started

issuing interim orders/directions under this newly added provision to

keep the erring intermediaries or other delinquents associated

therewith out of the market. The exercise of this power was 28 challenged in different courts and even though the same was upheld,

Parliament thought that the provisions of the Act were inadequate

and in its wisdom amended section 11 by introducing sub section (4)

therein with effect from 29.10.2002 and gave specific power to the

Board to pass interim as well as final orders in the interests of

investors or the securities market. This sub section provides that the

Board may, by order, for reasons to be recorded in writing, in the

interests of investors or securities market take any of the measures

referred to therein. The measures that the Board may take or the

nature of the order that could be passed under this newly added sub

section is to suspend the trading of any security in a recognized stock

exchange or restrain persons from accessing the securities market

and prohibit any person associated therewith to buy, sell or deal in

securities. The Board may also suspend any office bearer of any

stock exchange or any self regulatory organization from holding such

position, impound and retain the proceeds or securities in respect of

any transaction which is under investigation, attach the bank

accounts of any intermediary or restrain any intermediary or any

person associated with the market from disposing of or alienating any

asset forming part of a transaction which is under investigation. As

is clear from the language of sub section (4) the measures that the

Board may take or the orders that it may pass would be "either

pending investigation or enquiry or on completion of such

investigation or enquiry". The word 'investigation' as used in section

11(4) has not been defined. It obviously refers to the investigation as

ordered under section 11-C of the Act because sections 11-C and 11(4) were introduced simultaneously in the year 2002 when

Parliament found that the Board prior to their introduction did not 29 have statutory power to investigate. The word 'inquiry' too has not

been defined in the Act though it finds mention in Sections 11 , 11B , 11D and 15I . Under section 12(3) of the Act also, the Board holds an

inquiry under the inquiry regulations for imposing major or minor

penalties including the penalty of suspension or cancellation of a

certificate of registration. It is, thus, clear that an inquiry is held

under sections 11 , 11B and 11D , it is also held under section 12(3) and also under section15I . Having regard to the scheme of the Act,

the rules and regulations made thereunder we are clearly of the view

that even though the inquiries contemplated by the Act may be held

under different set of provisions, their object is one and the same viz.

to help the Board to promote the development of and to regulate the

securities market and protect the interests of investors. The inquiry

under section 11 of the Act is held by the Board to find out what

measures it needs to take to protect the interests of the investors and

what steps it needs to take to promote the development of and to

regulate the securities market. Similarly, the inquiry which the

Board is required to make or causes to be made under section 11B is

to find out what directions should be issued to an intermediary or

any person associated with the securities market or to a company in

respect of matters referred to in section 11A . As already observed,

the Board also causes an inquiry to be made by an inquiry officer

under the inquiry regulations and/or by an adjudicating officer under

Chapter VIA. It is during the pendency of any of these inquiries or on

their completion that the Board may pass appropriate order - interim

or final. This is clear from the language of section 11(4) . Even under section 11(1) and thereafter with the introduction of section 11B in

the year 1995, the power of the Board was very wide and it could 30 take every measure that a situation would demand and issue such

directions that it considered necessary including the suspension of

an intermediary. Yet, to put everything beyond the shadow of doubt,

even the implicit has been made explicit by adding sub section (4) in Section 11 which now expressly authorizes the Board to issue various

kinds of orders, "either pending investigation or enquiry or on

completion of such investigation or enquiry". To illustrate: The

Board on receipt of a complaint or as a result of any investigation or

otherwise has reason to believe that some registered intermediary or

any person associated with the securities market has committed or is

about to commit any market malpractice or is indulging in any

unfair trade practice, it would first of all hold a preliminary inquiry,

howsoever brief it may be, to find out whether a case is made out for

a further inquiry into the matter. After ascertaining the prima facie

facts, it may find that the complaint was baseless. In that event the

complaint would be dropped. If the prima facie facts disclose a case

for proceeding further in the matter and depending upon the nature

and gravity of the wrong doing, it would decide what measures it

needs to take under section 11 to protect the securities market and

also the interests of the investors. If it feels that immediate

preventive action is essential, it can "restrain persons from accessing

the securities market and prohibit any person associated with

securities market to buy, sell or deal in securities" with immediate

effect. Even the proceeds of a transaction which may still be under

investigation could be impounded. It may also decide to issue

directions under section 11-B of the Act to a registered intermediary

or any other person associated with the market with a view to secure

the interests of investors in securities and the securities market. If 31 the facts found in the preliminary inquiry disclose a grave

misconduct on the part of an intermediary, it may simultaneously

initiate inquiry against the delinquent under the inquiry regulations

for imposing any of the penalties referred to therein including the

penalty of suspension or cancellation of his certificate of registration

so that he may get an opportunity to defend himself and establish his

innocence. This is also the requirement of the proviso to sub section

(3) of section 12 of the Act. If an order is passed imposing a penalty,

the same may be punitive so far as the delinquent is concerned, it

nevertheless helps the Board in the regulation of the market in as

much as it sends the right signals to others. This by itself is a

regulatory measure. The Board could impose monetary penalties

also in addition to or other than penalties of suspension or

cancellation of certificate of registration which may not be

appropriate in all cases of defaults. As already observed, section 11 is the very heart and soul of

the Act. This provision has been periodically amended and today it is

substantially different from what it was at its inception in the year

1992. The scope of the power has been considerably widened. The

introduction of sub section (4) in section 11 and various other

provisions like section 11B is indicative of the legislative intent.

These provisions are meant to arm the Board with authority so as to

be able to effectively exercise power and achieve the declared

objectives of the Act. It is clear that a common thread runs through

the various provisions of the Act and that is to empower the Board

to take preventive as well as punitive measures so as to protect the

investor and to promote the securities market. We cannot lose sight

of the fact that the Board has to regulate a speculative market and in 32 such a market varied situations may arise all of which cannot be

envisaged and there may be an urgent need to pass an order even

when an inquiry or investigation is pending. We cannot even

entertain a thought that the Board has no power to restrain an

intermediary from accessing the market who is alleged to have

committed grave irregularities which may adversely affect the

interests of investors or the market. On an examination of the provisions as noticed above, we find

that the legislative scheme is clear. The provisions of the Act are

basically intended to protect the interests of the investors and to

promote the market. However, the Act as initially enacted provided

primarily for taking promotional or protective measures. The power

to take preventive or punitive measures was implicit. Now it has

been expressly extended to taking even the preventive or punitive

measures. Without doubt, these, too, are ultimately aimed at

achieving the basic objectives of investor protection and promotion of

the development and regulation of the securities market as contained

in the preamble. The question whether the term inquiry referred to in section 11 also includes the inquiry under the inquiry regulations came up

before us in Bhoruka Financial Services Ltd. vs. Securities &

Exchange Board of India - Appeal No.18 of 2006 decided on

10.5.2006 wherein we observed as under: In view of the above, we hold that the word 'inquiry' used in section

11(4) refers to the inquiries held under sections 11 , 11B , also to the

enquiry under the inquiry regulations framed under section 12(3) and

also to the inquiry held under Chapter VIA and it is during the

pendency of any of these inquiries that an interim order could be

passed with a view to protect the interests of investors or in the

interest of the market. It is in this background of the legal position

that we have to examine the validity of the impugned order. When we examine the impugned order this is what we find: