This criminal petition is filed by the petitioner-accused

No.3 seeking the Court to quash the proceedings against him in

C.C.No.12 of 2023 on the file of Judicial Magistrate of First

Class at Husnabad, Siddipet District. The offences alleged

against the petitioner are under Sections 420 , 424 , 468 , 474 , 504 , 197 , 156 (3) of Indian Penal Code. 2. The facts of the case are that the complainant-2nd

respondent is the owner of Mahindra 475D1 Bhoomi Puthra

Tractor, which was purchased from Panchasheel Enterprises in

Karimnagar, by obtaining a loan from L&T Finance,

Karimnagar. However, the Panchasheel Enterprises and L & T

Finance institution failed to provide her with the necessary

documents of the Tractor. Despite repeated requests, the

officials kept postponing the matter. On 18.03.2016, employees

from Panchasheel Enterprises and L&T Finance visited the

complainant's house, demanding payment of the second

installment for the tractor finance and the complainant paid 24 2 instalment of the tractor. They obtained a receipt from her for

servicing and informed her that they would take back the

tractor for servicing. On the next day when she went to the

office to retrieve her tractor, she was told that the parts were

unavailable and would be ordered from the main branch for

repair and subsequent delivery. The complainant alleged that

Panchasheel Enterprises and L&T Finance colluded to create

false vehicle documents and sold the tractor to others without

her consent. She further alleged that at the time of finance

documentation, she was asked to sign blank papers and also to

provide empty cheques. Upon obtaining the vehicle registration

documents from the RTA authorities, she discovered that the

photo and address in Aadhar card attached in RTA file is

correct, but the photograph taken by RTA authorities for the

purpose of registration is different and the photograph belongs

to another old aged lady and not of the complainant. The

complainant claims that Panchasheel Enterprises and L&T

Finance committed forgery and cheating, causing her a loss of

Rs.6,00,000/-. Hence, requested the police to take action

against the accused and basing on the same, the police

registered the case against the accused. 3. Heard Sri T. Basavaiah, learned counsel appearing for the

petitioner and Sri M.Vivekananda Reddy, learned Assistant

Public Prosecutor appearing for the 1st respondent-State.

Even though notice is served on the 2nd respondent none

appeared on her behalf. 4. The contention of learned counsel for the petitioner is that

petitioner is innocent of the alleged offences and there are no

material allegations against him. The grievance of the 2nd

respondent is that her tractor was seized illegally which can be

challenged by her in appropriate civil proceedings and

investigation did not establish as to what is the role of this

petitioner and the conspiracy in commission of offence. Except

omnibus allegation of receipt of Rs.9000/- nothing was

attributed and no evidence was placed by the police to show

that the said amount was received by the petitioner. None of

the witnesses stated about the vehicle or about the petitioner

herein and without there being any evidence, he is falsely

implicated in this case. As such, prayed this Court to quash the

proceedings against the petitioner. 5. Learned Assistant Public Prosecutor would submit that

there are serious allegations against this petitioner which

requires trial. Hence, prayed to dismiss this petition. 6. Considering the submissions made by both the counsel

and the material on record, there are allegations against this

petitioner also. There is morphing of the photograph which was

not verified by A.3 properly and the allegation is that the

petitioner received Rs.9000/- as commission and took online

photograph of an unknown women without her knowledge

instead of 2nd respondent and put her signatures on the

concerned documents, A.3 misguided his officers and got

approval of this disputed registration document. Thereafter, A.1

sold the tractor to Lw.4 who in turn sold the same to Lw.3 and

Lw.3 got registration of the tractor in his name. The expert

opinion also shows that the person who wrote the red enclosed

signature marked S.1 to S. 14 did not write the red enclosed

signatures marked Q.1 to A.6, there are variations in

signatures. As the expert opinion shows that there is variation

in the signatures and there are serious allegations against the

petitioner, at this stage, the proceedings against the petitioner 5 cannot be quashed and the criminal petition is liable to be

dismissed. 7. Accordingly, the Criminal Petition is dismissed.

Miscellaneous petitions, pending, if any, shall stand closed. ______________
 K. SUJANA, J
Date: 24.07.2025
Rds