1. By this writ application under Article 226 of the Page 1 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

Constitution of India, the writ applicant has prayed for the
following reliefs; (C ) Pending admission, hearing and final disposal of
 this petition, Your Lordship may be pleased to direct the
 Respondents not to take any coercive steps against the
 Petitioner who is an elected director of Respondent No.1
 Bank and from functioning as a Director of the Bank. (D) to pass such other and further order/s as may be
 just and necessary in the circumstances of the case." 2. The facts of this case, giving rise to this writ application,
can be gathered from the order passed by a Coordinate Bench
dated 21st August, 2018, which reads thus; 3. Let the request made by the petitioner to the
 respondent no.1 be granted by August 23, 2018. Once
 the said report (not entire report, but only the report
 which concerns his cause) is produced before this court,
 other and further order shall be passed. Copy of this
 order shall be made available to the petitioner today
 itself. Keeping the issue of alternative remedy open, this
 order is being passed. Let the matter appear on board on August 23, 2018 in
 first 5 matters. Direct service today is permitted." 3. Pursuant to the order passed by this Court dated 21st
August, 2018, referred to above, the following further order
came to be passed dated 23rd August, 2018; 4. Thus, it appears that pursuant to the policy framed by
the RBI and the guidelines issued by it from time to time in
exercise of its powers under the provisions of the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949 and the RBI Act, 1934 , the writ applicant
is sought to be removed as one of the Directors of the
Respondent No.1-Bank. I take notice of the fact that in the
entire petition, the subject matter of challenge is the action Page 4 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

taken by the CEO of the Respondent No.1-Bank. A writ of
certiorari has been prayed against a Multi-State Scheduled
Bank registered under the Multi-State Cooperative Societies
Act, 1961 . The prayer, in substance, is to quash and set aside
the order dated 16th August, 2018 passed by the Bank. 5. I take notice of the fact that one more relief is prayed for
in the writ application for a writ of mandamus or any other
appropriate writ, order or direction to set aside the instructions
issued by the RBI to the respondent No.1-Bank with respect to
the breach of the writ applicant's relatives' accounts. 6. The impugned order passed by the Respondent No.1-
Bank reads as under; 7. I take notice of the bye-laws framed by the Respondent
No.1-Bank under the Act, 2002. The bye-law No.39 reads thus; 8. I also take notice of the master circular issued by the RBI
dated 1st July, 2015 on the Board of Directors. The relevant
part of the master circular is with regard to the prohibition on
loans and advances. The same reads thus; 6.3 The words any other financial accommodation shall
 include funded and non-funded credit limits and
 underwritings and similar commitments, as under; (a) The funded limits shall include loans and advances
 by way of bills purchase/discounting, pre-shipment and
 post-shipment credit facilities and purchase of capital
 equipment and acceptance limits in connection therewith Page 7 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

 sanctioned to borrowers, and guarantees by issue of
 which a bank undertakes financial obligation to enable its
 constituents to acquire capital assets. (b) The non-funded limits shall include letters of credit,
 guarantees other than those referred to in paragraph (a)
 above and underwritings and similar commitments. 6.4 A person shall be deemed to be a relative of
 another, if and only if:- List of relatives 1. Father 2. Mother including step-mother 3. Son including step-son 4. Son's wife 5. Daughter including step-daughter 6. Daughter's husband 7. Brother (including step-brother) 8. Brother's wife 9. Sister (including step-sister) 10. Sister's husband." 9. I also take notice of the letter dated 27th September,
2017 addressed by the RBI to the respondent No.1-Bank
intimating as under; 10. I also take notice of the resolution passed by the
respondent No.1-Bank with regard to the writ applicant. The
resolution reads thus; 11. On 26th August, 2018, the writ applicant was informed by
the respondent No.1-Bank to step down from the Board of
Directors. The contents of the letter are as under; 12. In the last, I took notice of one letter addressed by the
Government of India to the respondent No.1- Bank dated 2 nd
May, 2018, which reads as under; 13. Mr. Saurabh Soparkar, the learned senior counsel,
assisted by Mr. Amar N. Bhatt, the learned counsel appearing
for the RBI has raised a preliminary objection with regard to
the maintainability of this writ application. Mr. Soparkar raised
an issue that the present writ application under Article 226 of
the Constitution of India is not maintainable against a Multi-
State Scheduled Bank. According to Mr. Soparkar, merely by
praying for relief in terms of para-9(B), the writ application
would not be maintainable in law. The learned senior counsel Page 11 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

submitted that a Multi-State Scheduled Bank is not a State
within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India nor
an instrumentality of the State. According to the learned senior
counsel, the Bank is not an authority or a person within the
meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India. Mr.
Soparkar, the learned senior counsel, in support of his
preliminary objection with regard to the maintainability of this
writ application, has placed strong reliance on a Division Bench
decision of this Court (to which I was a party) in the case of Ionic Metalliks & Ors. vs. Union of India & Ors. , 2015(2)
GLH 156. 14. Mr. Soparkar also invited the attention of this Court to
the reply filed on behalf of the respondent No.2, duly affirmed
by the Asst. General Manager, Ahmedabad Regional Office of
the RBI, inter alia, stating as under; wise in its entirety should not be taken as admission on
 the part of the RBI of any of the allegations and
 averments of the petitioner. For the sake of brevity, I Page 12 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

deny each and every allegation of the petitioner. I crave
leave to tile a detailed and fuller affidavit, if required
during the pendency of this petition. 3. That this Petition is wholly misconceived and devoid
of merits, both in law and on facts. There is no violation
of any legal and/or fundamental rights of the Petitioner.
Further, the allegation about violation of the principles of
natural justice is misconceived and therefore, this writ
petition, under Article 226 of the Constitution of India is
not maintainable and deserves to be dismissed in limine. 4. That, RBI is a statutory Corporation constituted as a
Monetary and Banking Authority under the Reserve Bank
of India Act, 1934 and is vested with the responsibility of
Superintendence and control of the banking business in
the country under the provisions of the Banking
Regulations Act . The banking business of banks including
the cooperative banks and propriety of their existence
and non-existence etc. are

subject matters of close regulation by the RBI. In the year
1965, Parliament felt it necessary to bring within the
purview of the BR Act, 1949 a large number of
cooperative societies carrying on banking business to
prevent the emergence of weak urban banks and also to
ensure the growth of co-operative banking on sound
lines. By the Act 23 of 1965, called the Banking Laws
(Application to Co-Operative Societies) Act, 1965, the
then Banking Companies Act has been, with certain
modification, made applicable to certain Co-Operative
Societies, carrying on the business of banking. The Act 23 of 1965 came into effect from 1 March 1966 by
inserting to the Principal Act a new Part- Part V, which
consists of Section 56 , providing for the application of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 to Co-Operative Banks
[B.R. Act, 1949 (AACS)]. Section 56 of the Act provides to
the effect that the provisions of the Act as in force for the
time being shall apply to, or in relation to, co-operative
societies as they apply to banking companies, but
subject to the modifications laid down in the section. 5. That in terms of Section 35 of the BR Act, 1949
(AACS), the RBI is empowered to cause an inspection of
any co-operative bank and its books and accounts as well
as cause a scrutiny of the affairs of the co-operative bank Page 13 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

and its books and accounts. Further, Section 35A of the
BR Act (AACS) empowers the RBI to give directions to
banks in the public interest; or in the interest of banking
policy; or to prevent the affairs of any bank being
conducted in a manner detrimental to the interests of the
depositors or in a manner prejudicial to the interests of
the bank; and to secure the proper management of the
bank. The banks are bound by the directions so issued by
the RBI under Section 35-A. 6. That the RBI has in exercise of its powers conferred
under Sections 21 and 35-A of the BR Act (AACS), issued
directions BPD.Dir.No.5/ 13.05.00/2002-03 dated April 29,
2003 on 'Loans and advances to directors, relatives and
firms/concerns in which they are interested'. The
directions stipulates as under: I submit that RBI has issued the said direction in view of
a number of instances that had come to its notice where
because of the concentrated exposure built up by UCBs
to the directors, their relatives or firms in which they are
interested, the banks have run into financial problems on
account of such accounts becoming NPAs. I submit that
the said direction was issued in the light of the
recommendation of the Joint
Parliamentary Committee (JPC) which at that point of
time enquired into the stock market scam. The
recommendation stated that in order to prevent
irregularities of the type surfaced in the case of some co-
operative banks which were examined by the Committee,
they are of the view that full ban on granting of loans and
advances to the directors and their relatives, or the
concerns in which they are interested needs to be
imposed and that appropriate legal procedures may be
initiated to ensure that there is no conflict of interest in
the grant of loans and advances to the directors and their
relatives and the concerns in which they are interested.
In line with the said recommendation, the RBI had issued
the said directions prohibiting the urban cooperative
banks from extending any loans and advances (both Page 14 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

secured and unsecured) to the directors, their relatives
and the firms/concerns/companies in which they are
interested, with immediate effect. A copy of the direction
dated April 29, 2003 is produced as Annexure A.

ON MERITS 8. This affidavit is filed for the limited purpose of
apprising this Hon'ble Court regarding the correct
position of law and facts which lead to the issue of the
letter dated September 27, 2017 to MUCBL. This affidavit
is filed without prejudice to file a detailed affidavit in case
the same is required at a later stage. 9. Without prejudice to the generality of the
submissions made hereinabove, but relying upon the
same, it is submitted that the averments and contentions
in the petition, are not correct and hence denied, except
to the extent specifically admitted herein. Such of the
allegations that are not specifically admitted hereunder
should be deemed to have been denied. 10. I deny the facts averred in the petition as
misconceived, false and not correct. I submit that the
petitioner has managed to avail loan facility from MUCBL
in the companies in which he and his relatives are
interested parties by camouflaging the entire
management of the related companies in order to
overcome the provisions of statutory directions issued by
RBI banning loans and advances to directors and their
relatives and firms/concerns in which they are interested. 11. I submit that the RBI conducted the statutory
inspection of the Mehsana Urban Cooperative Bank
Limited (MUCBL) with reference to its financial position as
on March 31, 2016, during November and December
2016. During the inspection, several irregularities and
violation of the provisions of the BR Act as well as the
directions issued by the RBI from time to time, were
observed. For the sake of brevity RBI is categorically
dealing with only the specific finding during the
inspection
which is the bone of contention in the present petition. C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT 12. That during the inspection of MUCBL with reference
to its financial position as on March 31, 2016, RBI
observed that MUCBL had sanctioned loans and
advances to eight firms/concerns/companies in which the
Directors on the Board of the bank were interested. As
co-operative banks are prohibited from granting loans to
firms/companies in which directors were interested, RBI
had by letters dated August 10 and September 27, 2017
advised MUCBL to recall/close the eight director
related/interested loan accounts and to advise the
directors who are involved in connected lending to step
down from the Board of the bank. The said direction was
issued by the RBI to prevent the affairs of the bank being
conducted in a manner detrimental to the interests of the
depositors and the bank as well as to secure proper
management of the bank. 13. That the eight accounts include three accounts in
which the petitioner was interested viz. Vimal Dairy,
Swastik Ceracon and Cengres Tiles at the time of
inspection the details of which are as under: (a) Account of Vimal Dairy Ltd. (1) Vimal Dairy Ltd was formed in 1992 by Shri
Ganpatbhai Kashiram Patel, Chairman of MUCBL who was
the founder member. At the time of inspection of the
bank by RBI i.e. during November and December 2016, it
was observed that Shri Jayeshbhai Chandulal Patel, son
of the petitioner had been the Managing Director of
Vimal Dairy Ltd till June 2015. Vimal Dairy was the
subsidiary of the parent company Vimal Oil and Food
(VOF), where Shri Jayeshbhai Chandulal Patel was the
Chairman of the company. It was observed that Vimal
Dairy had opened five different current accounts with
different branches of MUCBL, whereas the company was
availing credit facilities from Bank of India, Mehsana. (ii) Vimal Dairy had availed CC limit of Rs. 4616.00 lakh
from Bank of India, Mehsana Branch. The account of its
parent company i.e. VOF Ltd. had turned out to be NPA
as on 31/03/2016 in Bank of India, Corporate branch,
Ahmedabad. This was evident from the Bank of India,
Mehsana branch's letter dated May 27, 2016 advising
renewal of its loan facilities subject to some of the
conditions such as : (i) execution of personal guarantee Page 16 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

letter from Shri J ayesh C Patel and Shri Chandubhai I
Patel (Petitioner) and Shri Ganpatbhai K Patel and two
others and (ii) to submit a roadmap for exiting in the light
of other account of the Group (VOFL) is NPA. (iii) In view of Bank of India's above mentioned letter
and to enable Vimal Dairy to avail loan from MUCBL,
shareholding (19.35% as on March 31, 2016) was
transferred by the family of the petitioner to his
grandchildren and by Shri Ganpatbhai K Patel to MPYS
Infratech Pvt Ltd on June 15, 2016. Thereafter, three
directors were inducted into Vimal Dairy on July 20, 2016
viz. (1) Shri Jignesh Kumar Ramanbhai Patel, (ii) Shri
Chintankumar Bhailabhbhai Patel and (iii) Shri
Rameshbhai Dwarkadas Patel and ROC was informed; the
loan of Rs.3000 lakh was sanctioned on July 22, 2016 Le.
within two days of change of directors. (iv) I submit that Vimal Dairy ceasing to be the subsidiary
of Vimal Oil Foods with effect from 26/06/2015 does not
mean that there was no linkage between Vimal Dairy and
the directors of MUCBL, which is evident from the
shareholding pattern as on 31.03.2016 available with
ROC wherein it was indicated that the family members of
Shri C l Patel had 19.35% shares in the company. Of
which, 18.07% of shares were transferred on June 15,
2016 to the grandchildren of the petitioner (viz. Kartik J.
Patel, Vimal J. Patel and Kirtan P. Patel). This is
apparently to escape from the definition as given in RBI
Circular of April 29, 2003 wherein grandchildren are not
included. (v) Further, it is also relevant that Shri Pradipbhai
Chandubhai Patel, another son of Shri Chandubhai I Patel
was a signatory to operate the account of Vimal Dairy in
Mehsana Urban CBL and continued to be the signatory to
operate the account of Vimal Dairy in MUCBL even after
change of directorship in July 2016. Incidentally, Shri
Pradipkumar C Patel son of the petitioner and his wife
Mrs Jigshaben P Patel were having 437200 shares
forming 7.29% of total shares of Vimal Dairy. Therefore,
the averment made by the petitioner that no "relative" is
a shareholder or director of Vimal Dairy to whom MUCBL
provided credit facility is not acceptable the same being
misconceived and false. C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT (vi) Further, it is also relevant to state that out of the
three new directors of Vimal Dairy registered with ROC
on July 20, 2016, only one director, viz. Shri Rameshbhai
Dwarkadas Patel was having 216000 shares of Vimal
Dairy whereas other two directors were not having any
shares of the company as per shareholding as on March
31, 2016, which shows that the so called reshuffling of
the Board of the company was just a camouflaging
exercise to overcome the directions issued by the RBI
and avail loan from MUCBL. (vii) It was further observed during the inspection that
the petitioner and his son, Shri Jayesh Chandubhai Patel
had extended personal guarantee to Bank of India for the
loan availed by Vimal Dairy, which has been taken over
by MUCBL. From the above facts, it is explicit that the
petitioner and his relatives were interested parties in the
account and they have been acting in a manner
detrimental to the interest of
the depositors of MUCBL, the bank as well as the public
interest. (b) Account of Swastik Ceracon

From the statutory inspection conducted by RBI, it was
observed that Shri Jayeshbhai Chandubhai Patel, son of
the petitioner was not only past director of Swastik
Ceracon Ltd but was also having shares and directorship
in sister concerns; viz. Akik Tiles Ltd. and Gladder
Ceramics which were merged with Swastik Ceracon Ltd.
As per merger documents dated May 05, 2012, Shri J C
Patel was having shares in Swastik Ceracon (250000) and
Akik Tiles (120000) and Gladder Ceramics (1300200). From the shareholding pattern as on March 31, 2016, as
revealed by the ROC, the family members of the
petitioner had 15.12% shares in the company and Shri
Keshavlal K Patel, brother of Shri G K Patel, Chairman of
MUCBL had 0.9% shares in the company. Besides, other
group companies viz. Vimal Energy and Vimal Dairy had
3.35% and 3.38% shares respectively in Swastik Ceracon.
Thus, this is a related account of the petitioner. Neither MUCBL in its letter dated August 18, 2018 nor the
Petitioners in the Petition mention that, there was
another loan account wherein the petitioner is interested
as observed by RBI during inspection of the bank as on
March 31, 2016 i.e., Cengres Tiles, details of which are as
under; (i) In case of Cengres Tiles (a Private Limited company),
the bank stand of MUCBL that Shri Chandubhai Ishwarlal
Patel was having no interest in the firm was not true. In
support of this, the bank has furnished a copy of the ROC
search report containing names of three Directors as: (i)
Shri Parth Rajesh Shah, (ii) Shri Rakeshbhai Kacharabhai
Patel and (iii) Shri Ashish Chandravardan Patel and
concluded that they were not related to the Chairman.
The matter was examined during the inspection and it
was observed that the names of the Directors that were
shown as loan applicants were having much less
percentage of shareholding in the company than the
shareholding of Shri Chandubhai Ishwarlal Patel and his
relatives. Out of the total paid up capital of Rs. 775.00
lakh (77.50 lakh shares of RS. 10), the shares of these
three Directors aggregated to 520493 shares, forming
just 6.71% of paid up share capital whereas Shri
Chandubhai Ishwarbhai Patel and his family members
together had total 16,15,684 shares forming 20.84% of
paid UP capital of the company as on 31/03/2015 and
19.91% as on 31/03/2016. (ii) Further, from the scrutiny of the loan account of
Cengres Tiles limit Rs. 800.00 lakh), it was observed that
the loan account had remained overdrawn for most of
the period and was brought down within the limit on
31/03/2016 by transferring funds of Rs.245.00 lakh from
another loan account (no. 0001/13/05/000281) of its
sister concern M/s Swastik Ceracon. As on 31/03/2016,
the account was overdrawn
with outstanding balance of Rs. 805.52 lakh exceeding
the limit of Rs.800.00 lakh sanctioned. (iii) Though the loan account of Cengres Tiles was closed
subsequent to RBI advice, the fact remains that at the
time of RBI inspection, the account was operational and
the petitioner was interested in the loan account and as a
director of the bank, the loan should not have been
availed by the company from the bank. C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT (iv) The Petitioner thus is also guilty of suppression of
 material facts regarding his interest in Cengres Tiles. 14. I submit that in view of the above, allowing the
 petitioner to be on the Board of the co-operative bank
 would be detrimental to the interest of the depositors of
 the bank, the bank itself as well as the public interest.
 Therefore, the petitioner is not entitled to any relief as
 sought for, including any interim relief. Grant of any
 interim relief would jeopardise the interest of the bank
 and its depositors. 15. In the facts and circumstances submitted herein
 above, the petitioner is not entitled to any relief as
 prayed for against the RBI. The petitioner has failed to
 show any reasonable ground for seeking relief against
 the RBI. Therefore, it is prayed that this Hon'ble Court
 may be pleased to dismiss the petition as against the
 respondent no.2, with costs thereof. What is stated above is true to the best of my
 knowledge, information and belief: Solemnly affirmed at Ahmedabad on this 6th day of
 September, 2018. " 16. Mr. M.S. Shah, the learned counsel appearing for the writ
applicant submitted that the writ application against a Multi-
State Scheduled Bank is maintainable. He submitted that a
writ would lie against a cooperative society when the duty
owed by it is of a public nature or when there is infringement
of any statutory rules by a cooperative society. According to
Mr. Shah, the entire action initiated by the Bank against his
client is at the instance of the RBI and the same is illegal and
contrary to the principles of natural justice and, therefore, the
writ application is maintainable. 17. Mr. Shah, in support of his submission that the writ
application is maintainable against a cooperative society, has
placed reliance on a decision of the Supreme Court in the case
of Akalakunnam Village Service Cooperative Bank
Limited & Anr. vs. Binu N. & Ors. , (2014) 9 SCC 294 18. Mr. Dakshesh Mehta, the learned counsel appearing for
the respondent No.1-Bank has also opposed this writ
application on the ground of its maintainability. Mr. Mehta
would submit that the Bank is not discharging any public
duty. He would submit that the duty owed by the Bank is not
of a public nature. There is no infringement of any statutory
rules by the Bank. Mr. Mehta would submit that his client has
taken the necessary steps for the removal of the writ applicant
as a Director from the Board of Directors keeping in mind the
guidelines and directions issued by the RBI. C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT 19. Mr. Mehta placed reliance on the following averments
made in the affidavit-in-reply filed on behalf of the Bank. The
same reads thus; Definition of a relative: A person shall be deemed to be
 relative of another if and only if (1) they are members of
 a Hindu Undivided Family or (2) they are husband and
 wife or (3) the one is related to the other in the manner
 indicated below: 20. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the
parties and having gone through the materials on record, the
only question that falls for my consideration is whether this
writ application under Article 226 of the Constitution of India
against a Multi-State Scheduled Cooperative Bank is
maintainable in law?. 21. I may in this regard at the outset notice that the Apex
Court in Supriyo Basu Vs. West Bengal Housing Board ,
(2005) 6 SCC 289 held that a Co-operative Society is
constituted on agreement between the members thereof who
had agreed to abide by the provisions of the Co-operative
Societies Act and the Rules framed thereunder or the bye-laws Page 24 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

framed by the Society; that where the society is not a
department of the State and is also not a creature of a statute
but merely governed by a statute, only if it is established that
the mandatory provision of a statute has been violated, would
a writ petition be maintainable thereagainst. Referring to U.P.
State Co-operative Land Development Bank Ltd. Vs. Chandra
Bhan Dubey (1999) 1 SCC 741, it was held that the question to
be considered in determining whether a writ petition would lie
against a Co-operative Society is, what is the nature of the
statutory duty placed on it and the Court is to enforce such
statutory public duty. 22. Reference may also be made to S.S. Rana Vs. Registrar,
Co- operative Societies (2006) 11 SCC 634 which was a case of
termination by Kangra Central Co-operative Bank Ltd.
constituted under the Himachal Pradesh Co-operative Societies
Act, 1968 of the services of its Branch Manager. The
contention of the Branch Manager in that case was that the
activities of the Co-operative Society being to lend money to
the agriculturists, the same would come within the purview of Pradeep Kumar Biswas Vs. Indian Institute of Chemical Biology
MANU/SC/0330/2002 and the writ petition alleging the
termination to be contrary to rules, bye-laws and principles of
natural justice would be maintainable. The Supreme Court held
that where a Society has not been constituted under an Act
and functions like any other Co-operative Society and is merely
regulated by the Co-operative Societies Act and where the
State has no say in the functions of the Society, and where the
membership, acquisition of shares and all other matters are
governed by the bye-laws framed under the Act and the State
is not the majority shareholder of the Society and does not Page 25 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

exercise any direct or indirect control over the affairs of the
Society for deep and pervasive control and the State has only
to nominate one Director, it could not be said that the State
exercises any functional control over the affairs of the Society.
It was further held that several other relevant questions
required to be considered in deciding whether writ would lie
against the Society are, (i) How the Society was created; (ii)
Whether it enjoys any monopoly character; (iii) Do the
functions of the Society partake to statutory functions or public
functions; and (iv) Can it be characterized as public Authority.
The Kangra Central Co-operative Bank Ltd. was held to be not
answering any of the aforesaid tests. It was held that the
general regulations like the Companies Act or the Co-operative
Societies Act would not render the activities of a Company or a
Society as subject to control of the State and the purpose of
the provisions of the Companies Act or the Co- operative Societies Act is only to ensure proper functioning of the Society
and the State or the statutory authorities as the Registrar Co-
operative Societies would have nothing to do with the day-to-
day functioning of the Society. 23. I may notice that the writ petition, as filed, does not
contain any pleadings whatsoever as to the nature, character
or constitution of the respondent No.1-Bank or as to the
maintainability of the writ application against the respondent
No.1-Bank and presumes the writ application to be
maintainable. Upon objection being taken by the respondents,
the maintainability of the writ application is justified only for
the reason of the control exercised by the Central Registrar,
Multi-State Cooperative Societies under the Multi-State
Cooperative Societies Act and further that the entire action Page 26 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

taken by the bank is at the instance of the RBI. To put it in
other words, the submission canvassed on behalf of the writ
applicant is that as the action is at the behest of the RBI and
other statutory authorities and the impugned order has also
been passed by the bank in accordance with the directions of
the RBI and the Government of India, in substance, it could be
said that the impugned order has been passed by an
'authority' falling within the Article 12 of the Constitution. 24. The respondent No.1-Bank has a distinct personality and
legal entity. It is not a body constituted by the State
Government or the Central Government. It is a Multi-State
Cooperative Society incorporated under the Multi-State
Cooperative Societies Act . Mere regulatory control of the RBI
under a statute is not sufficient. The objective purpose of
applying the various tests is to decipher whether the body is
really an agency of the Government. If a body is not an
agency of the Government, it is not an "Authority" within the
meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India. 25. Article 226 of the Constitution of India is plenary in
nature and confers powers on the High Court of the country to
issue writs. The said Article reads as under; 29. Generally speaking an order of mandamus is a command
directed towards any person, corporation of inferior tribunal
requiring them to do some practical thing which pertains to his
or their office and is in the nature of public duty. An order of Page 29 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

certiorari is an order directing an inferior tribunal requiring the
record of the proceedings in some case or matter to be
transmitted into the High Court to be dealt with there. The
learned author while discussing the Indian law at page 1324 of
the Same edition has observed as follows:- against "any person" for "any other purpose", that is, for
 "any purpose other than the enforcement of fundamental
 rights". This contention was negatived in a number of
 cases, where the petitioners asked for reliefs to which
 they were not entitled according to well-settled principles
 governing the issue of prerogative writs. Thus, in In re
 Nagabhushana, (1950) Madras 1119, the petitioner asked
 for a writ of prohibition against the various organs of a
 political party. In re Kallumattam Thippaswami, (1951) 2
 M.L.J. 171, the guardian of a minor prayed for writ of
 mandamus restraining the respondents, who were
 private parties, from cutting trees standing on certain
 survey numbers. In Indian Tobacco Corpn. Vs. Madras ,
 (1954) Madras 754, the petitioner asked for a mandamus
 restraining the respondents from committing an alleged
 anticipatory breach of contract. The broad contention in
 these cases was that Article 226 gave the court
 jurisdiction even to decide private disputes. The following
 propositions emerge from the cases rejecting that
 contention: (1) The literal construction of Article 226 could not have been intended because "it would enable
 any person to obtain any relief by an application under
 this Article. This construction of the Article would
 practically abrogate the entire judicial system and the
 machinery set up for the administration of justice in the
 State." (2) There is internal evidence in Article 226 that
 the words "to any person" and "for any purpose" cannot
 be construed literally. For, whatever other power Article
 226 confers on the High Courts, it undoubtedly confers
 the power to issue writs in the nature of habeas corpus,
 mandamus, prohibition, certiorari and quo warranto. But Page 30 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

 these writs cannot be issued "to any person" and "for any
 purpose". The purposes for which, and the persons to
 whom, these writs can be issued have long been well
 settled. Therefore, the power to issue writs of the nature
 expressly mentioned "to any person" can only mean "the
 power to issue such a writ to any person to whom,
 according to well established principles the writ lay". And
 the words "for any other purpose" must mean "for any
 other purpose for which any of the writs would according
 to well-established principles issue" the word "other"
 being read in antithesis to "for the enforcement of
 fundamental rights". It is submitted that from the
 propositions set out in (2) above the following proposition
 must follow:- (3) Orders, directions or writs are to be
 issued "to any person" and for "any purpose", once the
 meaning of these words is ascertained with reference to
 writs, a different meaning cannot be given to them with
 reference to "orders" or "directions". Nor should this
 surprise us. In England, the writs of mandamus, certiorari
 and prohibition were replaced by "orders" of the same
 name in 1938; the writ of quo warranto was replaced first
 by information in the nature of quo warranto, and later
 by an injunction-that is, an order of the court. In India the
 writs of habeas corpus and mandamus were replaced by
 "directions" in the nature of, habeas corpus and by
 "directions" in the nature of mandamus by Section 491,
 Cr. P.C. and Section 45, Specific Relief Act, 1877,
 respectively. The words "orders" and "directions" were
 used to describe what at one time were called writs, and
 since the terminology had been in use in England and in
 India, all the three words have been used in Article 226 to describe well-recognized English writs. (4) Article 226 should not be construed so as to replace the ordinary
 remedies by way of a suit and application available to the
 litigant under the general law of the land." 30. At page 1377 in para 16.289, it was again emphasized by
the learned author that mandamus lies against a person
holding a public office or against a corporation or inferior court
for the enforcement of duties, which under any law for the time
being in force, are clearly incumbent upon such person or
court in his or its public character or of such corporation in its Page 31 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

corporate character. At page 1383 the author again observed
that as mandamus lies to secure the discharge of public duties
which are clearly incumbent under the law for time being in
force, it will not lie against private parties or for the
enforcement of contractual rights. 31. It is true that merely because the Reserve Bank of India
lays the banking policy in the interest of the banking system
or in the interest of monetary stability or sound economic
growth having due regard to the interests of the depositors
etc. as provided under Section 5(c)(a) of the Banking
Regulation Act does not mean that the cooperative banks
carrying on the business of or commercial activity of banking,
discharge any public function or public duty. These are all
regulatory measures applicable to those carrying on
commercial activity in banking and these companies are to act
according to these provisions failing which certain
consequences follow as indicated in the Act itself. 32. A cooperative society carrying on banking business as a
scheduled bank, cannot be termed as an institution or
company carrying on any statutory or public duty. A private
body or a person may be amenable to writ jurisdiction only
where it may become necessary to compel such body or
association to enforce any statutory obligations or such
obligations of public nature casting positive obligation upon it. 33. I don't find such conditions are fulfilled in respect of a
cooperative bank carrying on a commercial activity of banking. 34. Mr. Shah, the learned counsel appearing for the writ Page 32 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

applicant placed strong reliance on the decision of the
Supreme Court in the case of Akalakunnam (supra). I take
notice of the fact that in the said case, circulars were issued
under Rule 182 (5) of the Kerala Cooperative Societies Rules
by the Government and Registrar, Cooperative Societies laying
down the guidelines and procedure regarding the selection by
conducting examination and interview for the appointment of
the subordinate staff. The notification issued by the
Cooperative Bank regarding process of selection for the post of
Attenders/Peons in violation of the statutory circulars was
made a subject matter of challenge by way of a writ petition.
The High Court quashed the notification issued by the Bank. In
such circumstances, the Bank went before the Supreme Court.
The Supreme Court took the view that the circulars issued
under Rule 182(5) of the Rules being statutory in nature, and
having statutory force, the writ petition against the Bank's
notification was maintainable. There is no further discussion in the said decision of the Supreme Court as regards the public
functions or public duties, if any, being performed by the Bank. 35. Let me also look into the Division Bench decision of this
Court in the case of Ionic Metalliks (supra), on which strong
reliance has been placed by the learned senior counsel
appearing for the RBI as well as by the learned councel
appearing for the Bank. I may refer to the relevant
observations of the Division Bench as regards the
maintainability of a writ petition against a private bank. 156 Proceeding further, the Supreme Court held that it
was immaterial whether the corporation was created by a
statute or under a state. The test is whether it is an
instrumentality or agency of the Government and not as
to how it was created. In the said case their Lordships
proceeded to observe that the Government may act
through the instrumentality or agency of a natural person
or it may employ the instrumentality or agency of
juridical person to carry out its functions. The test is that
it will be considered to be an agency and instrumentality
of the State. It is true that the corporation is a distinct
juristic entity with a corporate structure of its own and it
carries on its functions on business principles with a
certain amount of autonomy which is necessary as well
as useful from the point of view of effective business
management but behind the formal ownership which is
cast in the corporate mould, the reality is very much the
deeply pervasive presence of the Government, and it is
in fact the Government which acts through the
instrumentality or. agency of the corporation or the
juristic person. If the instrumentality and agency of the
Govt. discharges the Governmental functions it must be
subject to same limitations in the field of constitutional
law as the Government itself, though in the eye of the
law it would be a distinct and independent legal entity. In Ajay Hasia 's case (supra), the Supreme Court was
considering the obligations of instrumentalities and
agencies of the Government to respect the fundamental
rights of the citizens and they were held to be bound to
enforce the fundamental rights guaranteed to the
citizens of India under Part III of the Constitution of India.
If this binding was not there, the fundamental rights in
the opinion of the Supreme Court would then be reduced
to an idle dream or a promise of unreality. Because in the
constitution philosophy of a democratic socialist public
Govt. has to undertake a multitude of socio-economic
operations and the Govt. having regard to the practical
advantages of functioning through the legal device of a
corporation by resorting to create instrumentalities or
agencies which will not exonerate the Govt. itself from Page 35 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

obeying the fundamental rights of the citizens. In the
context of enforcing fundamental rights, the Supreme
Court laid emphasis that by process of judicial
construction fundamental rights cannot be rendered
futile and meaningless. Because in the opinion of the
Apex Court, it is the fundamental rights which alone with
the directive principles constitute the life force of the
Constitution of India and they must be put into effective
action by meaningful and purposeful interpretation.
Therefore, it was observed that if a corporation or a
company is the instrumentality or agency of
Government, it must be held to be an authority within
the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution and subject
to the same basic obligation to obey the fundamental
rights as the Government. 157. Applying the test nos.1 and 2 to the facts of the
case on hand, no materials have been placed on record
to even remotely indicate that the share capital of the
bank is held by the Central Government or the State
Government, or the bank is dependent upon the
Government for financial assistance. There is nothing to
even remotely suggest that the Standard Chartered Bank
enjoys any monopoly status conferred by the State. With
regard to the fourth test, there is nothing to indicate
existence of deep and pervasive State control. All that
can be said is that the directives of the Reserve Bank of
India are binding on the bank. With regard to the fifth
test, although it has been very vociferously submitted by
Mr.Shelat, the learned appearing on behalf of the
petitioners, that the functions of the bank are of public
importance and further the bank could be said to be
discharging a public function which is akin to a
Governmental function, yet this argument pales into
insignificance in view of the decision of the Supreme
Court in the case of Federal Bank Limited v. Sagar
Thomas and others , (2003)10 SCC 733. We shall discuss
the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Federal
Bank Limited (supra) a little later. 158 While dealing with the test based on functions of
the Coirporation of public importance, the Supreme Court
in Ramana Dayaram Shetty's case, AIR 1979 SC 1628, Page 36 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

referred to E.S.Evans v. Charles E.Newton, (1966)382 US
296 and Smith v. Allwright, (1943)32 US 649, and
observed that the decisions show that the test of public
or governmental character of the function is not easy of
application and does not invariably lead to the correct
inference because the range of governmental activity is
broad and varied and merely because an activity may be
such as may legitimately be carried on by Government, it
does not mean that a Corporation which is otherwise a
private entity, would be an instrumentality or agency of
the Government by reason of carrying of such activity. In
applying the test, therefore, a further precaution is to be
taken and it is to be seen whether the public nature of
the function is impregnated with governmental character
or tied or entwined with Government or fortified by some
other additional factor (vide observations in para 18
column 2 at page 641). In our view, therefore, the fifth
test is also not satisfied. 159. Thus, so far as the tests laid down by the Supreme
Court in the case of Ajay Hasia (supra) is concerned,
none of the tests could be said to be fulfilled so as to
make the Standard Chartered Bank, a private bank,
amenable to the writ jurisdiction of this Court. 160. In Pradeep Kumar Biswas v. Indian Institute of
Chemical Biology and others , (2002)5 SCC 111, the
Supreme Court considered the issue as regards Article 12 of the Constitution of India at length. We quote the
following observations of the Supreme Court : Clause (3) of Article 13 defines 'law' as including any
Ordinance, order, bye-law, rule, regulation, notification,
custom or uses having in the territory of India the force of
law. We have also referred to the speech of Dr. B.R.
Ambedkar in Constituent Assembly explaining the
purpose sought to be achieved by Article 12. In RSEB's
case, the majority adopted the test that a statutory
authority "would be within the meaning of 'other
authorities' if it has been invested with statutory power
to issue binding directions to the parties, disobedience of
which would entail penal consequences or it has the
sovereign power to make rules and regulations having
the force of law". In Sukhdev Singh's case, the principal reason which
prevailed with A.N. Ray, CJ for holding ONGC, LIC and IFC
as authorities and hence 'the State' was that rules and
regulations framed by them have the force of law. In
Sukhdev Singh's case, Mathew J. held that the test laid
down in RSEB's case was satisfied so far as ONGC is
concerned but the same was not satisfied in the case of
LIC and IFC and, therefore, he added to the list of tests
laid down in RSEB's case, by observing that though there
are no statutory provisions, so far as LIC and IFC are
concerned, for issuing binding directions to third parties,
the disobedience of which would entail penal
consequences, yet these corporations (i) set up under
statutes, (ii) to carry on business of public importance or
which is fundamental to the life of the people ___ can be
considered as the State within the meaning of Article 12. Thus, it is the functional test which was devised and
utilized by Mathew J. and there he said,

 "the question for consideration is whether a public Page 38 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

 corporation set up under a special statute to carry
 on a business or service which Parliament thinks
 necessary to be carried on in the interest of the
 nation is an agency or instrumentality of the State
 and would be subject to the limitations expressed in Article 13(2) of the Constitution. The State is an
 abstract entity. It can only act through the
 instrumentality or agency of natural or juridicial
 persons. Therefore, there is nothing strange in the
 notion of the State acting through a corporation and
 making it an agency or instrumentality of the
 State". It is pertinent to note that functional tests became
necessary because of the State having chosen to entrust
its own functions to an instrumentality or agency in
absence whereof that function would have been a State
activity on account of its public importance and being
fundamental to the life of the people. The philosophy underlying the expansion of Article 12 of
the Constitution so as to embrace within its ken such
entitites which would not otherwise be the State within
the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution has been
pointed out by the eminent jurist H.M. Seervai in
Constitutional Law of India (Silver Jubilee Edition, Vol.1). Unfortunately thereafter the tests were considered
relevant for testing if an authority is the State and this
fallacy has occurred because of difference between
'instrumentality and agency' of the State and an
'authority' having been lost sight of sub-silentio, Page 41 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

unconsciously and un-deliberated. In our opinion, and
keeping in view the meaning which 'authority' carries,
the question whether an entity is an 'authority' cannot be
answered by applying Ajay Hasia tests. (2) The tests laid down in Ajay Hasia 's case are relevant
for the purpose of determining whether an entity is an
instrumentality or agency of the State. Neither all the
tests are required to be answered in positive nor a
positive answer to one or two tests would suffice. It will
depend upon a combination of one or more of the
relevant factors depending upon the essentiality and
overwhelming nature of such factors in identifying the
real source of governing power, if need be by removing
the mask or piercing the veil disguising the entity
concerned. When an entity has an independent legal
existence, before it is held to be the State, the person
alleging it to be so must satisfy the Court of brooding
presence of government or deep and pervasive control of
the government so as to hold it to be an instrumentality
or agency of the State. (Emphasis supplied)

161 In Jatyapal Singh and others v. Union of India and
others , (2013)6 SCC 452, the Supreme Court reiterated
the tests for considering, whether a body falls within the
definition of State under Article 12 of the Constitution of
India. 162 The tests propounded for determining as to when
the Corporation will be said to be an instrumentality or
agency of the Government as stated in Ramana Dayaram
Shetty v. International Airport Authority of India , (1979)3
SCC 489, were summarized as follows : conferred or State-protected. (4) Existence of deep and pervasive State control may
afford an indication that the corporation is a State agency
or instrumentality. (5) If the functions of the corporation are of public
importance and closely related to governmental
functions, it would be a relevant factor in classifying the
corporation as an instrumentality or agency of
Government. (6) Specifically, if a department of Government is
transferred to a corporation, it would be a strong factor
supportive of this inference of the corporation being an
instrumentality or agency of Government. 163. The aforesaid ratio in Ramana Dayaram Shetty (supra) has been consistently followed by the Supreme
Court, as is evident from paragraph 31 of the judgment in Biswas (supra). Para 31 reads as under : 164. The subsequent paragraphs of the judgment
noticed the efforts made to further define the contours Page 43 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

 within which to determine, whether a particular entity
 falls within the definition of other authority, as given in Article 12. The ultimate conclusion of the Constitution
 Bench are recorded in paragraph 39 and 40 as under :- 165. In our opinion, the functions of the Standard
 Chartered Bank as one of the Scheduled Banks under the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 , cannot be regarded as
 Governmental or of essential public importance or as
 closely related to Governmental functions or being
 fundamental to the life of the people and duties and
 obligations to the public at large. The bank has its own
 resources to raise its funds without any contribution or
 shareholding by the State. It is not in dispute that it has
 its own Board of Directors. It works like any other private
 company in the banking business. C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT 166. In the aforesaid context, it will be profitable for us
to look into a decision of the Supreme Court in the case
of Federal Bank Limited v. Sagar Thomas and others ,
(2003)10 SCC 733. In the said case, the respondent no.1
was working as a Branch Manager in the Federal Bank.
He was suspended on 29th May 1982 since a disciplinary
inquiry was ordered into some charges of misconduct.
The Inquiry Officer found him guilty of the charges and
ultimately awarded punishment of dismissal. The
respondent no.1 challenged his dismissal by filing a writ
petition in the High Court. A preliminary objection to the
maintainability of the writ petition was taken by the
appellant Bank, saying that it was a private bank and not
a State or its agency or instrumentality within the
meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India. The
learned Single Judge of the High Court, however, found
that the Federal Bank performed a public duty, and as
such, it would get covered under the definition of 'other
authority' within the meaning of Article 12 , and as such,
the writ petition was maintainable. The order passed by
the learned Single Judge was carried in appeal and the
appeal was also dismissed. The Federal Bank challenged
the order passed by the High Court, dismissing the
appeal, before the Supreme Court. The question which
fell for the consideration before the Supreme Court on
appeal was, whether the appellant Bank was a private
body or fell within the definition of a State or legal or
other authorities under the control of the Government
within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of
India. 167. The observations of the Supreme Court as
contained in paragraphs 26 to 33 are worth noting : Besides taking care of such interest as indicated above,
there is no other interest of the State, to control the
affairs and management of the private companies. The
care is taken in regard to the industries covered under
the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 that their production which is important for the economy
may not go down yet the business activity is carried on
by such companies or corporations which only remains a
private activity of the entrepreneurs/companies. 27. Such private companies would normally not be
amenable to the writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the
Constitution. But in certain circumstances a writ may
issue to such private bodies or persons as there may be
statutes which need to be complied with by all concerned
including the private companies. For example, there are
certain legislations like the Industrial Disputes Act, the
Minimum Wages Act, the Factories Act or for maintaining
proper environment say Air (Prevention and Control of
Pollution) Act, 1981 or Water (Prevention and Control of
Pollution) Act, 1974 etc. or statutes of the like nature
which fasten certain duties and responsibilities statutorily
upon such private bodies which they are bound to comply
with. If they violate such a statutory provision a writ
would certainly be issued for compliance of those
provisions. For instance, if a private employer dispense
with the service of its employee in violation of the
provisions contained under the Industrial Disputes Act , in
innumerable cases the High Court interfered and have
issued the writ to the private bodies and the companies
in that regard. But the difficulty in issuing a writ may
arise where there may not be any non-compliance or
violation of any statutory provision by the private body.
In that event a writ may not be issued at all. Other
remedies, as may be available, may have to be resorted
to. 28. The six factors which have been enumerated in the
case of Ajay Hasia (supra) and approved in the later Page 47 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

decisions in the case of Ramana (supra) and the seven
Judges Bench in the case of Pradeep Kumar Biswas (supra) may be applied to the facts of the present case
and see as to those tests apply to the appellant bank or
not. As indicated earlier, share capital of the appellant
bank is not held at all by the government nor any
financial assistance is provided by the State, nothing to
say which may meet almost the entire expenditure of the
company. The third factor is also not answered since the
appellant bank does not enjoy any monopoly status nor it
can be said to be an institution having State protection.
So far control over the affairs of the appellant bank is
concerned, they are managed by the Board of Directors
elected by its shareholders. No governmental agency or
officer is connected with the affairs of the appellant bank
nor anyone of them is a member of the Board of
Directors. In the normal functioning of the private
banking company there is no participation or interference
of the State or its authorities. The statutes have been
framed regulating the financial and commercial activities
so that fiscal equilibrium may be kept maintained and not
get disturbed by the malfunctioning of such companies or
institutions involved in the business of banking. These
are regulatory measures for the purposes of maintaining
the healthy economic atmosphere in the country. Such
regulatory measures are provided for other companies
also as well as industries manufacturing goods of
importance. Otherwise these are purely private
commercial activities. It deserves to be noted that it
hardly makes any difference that such supervisory
vigilance is kept by the Reserve Bank of India under a
Statute or the Central Government. Even if it was with
the Central Government in place of the Reserve Bank of
India it would not have made any difference, therefore,
the argument based on the decision of All India Bank
Employees' Association (supra) does not advance the
case of the respondent. It is only in case of
malfunctioning of the company that occasion to exercise
such powers arises to protect the interest of the
depositors, shareholders or the company itself or to help
the company to be out of the woods. In the times of
normal functioning such occasions do not arise except for
routine inspections etc. with a view to see that things are
moved smoothly in keeping with fiscal policies in general. C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT 29. There are a number of such companies carrying on
the profession of banking. There is nothing which can be
said to be close to the governmental functions. It is an
old profession in one form or the other carried on by
individuals or by a group of them. Losses incurred in the
business are theirs as well as the profits. Any business or
commercial activity, may be banking, manufacturing
units or related to any other kind of business generating
resources, employment, production and resulting in
circulation of money are no doubt, are such which do
have impact on the economy of the country in general.
But such activities cannot be classified one falling in the
category of discharging duties, functions of public nature.
Thus the case does not fall in the fifth category of cases
enumerated in the case of Ajay Hasia (supra). Again we
find that the activity which is carried on by the appellant
is not one which may have been earlier carried on by the
government and transferred to the appellant company. For the sake of argument even if it may be assumed that
one or the other test as provided in the case of Ajay
Hasia (supra) may be attracted that by itself would not
be sufficient to hold that it is an agency of the State or a
company carrying on the functions of public nature. In
this connection, observations made in the case of Pradeep Kumar Biswas (supra) quoted earlier would also
be relevant. 30. We may now consider the two decisions i.e. Andi
Mukta (supra) and the U.P. State Co-operative Land
Development Bank Ltd. (supra)upon which much reliance
has been placed on behalf of the respondents to show
that a writ would lie against the appellant company. So
far the decision in the case of U.P. State Co-operative
Land Development Bank Ltd. (supra) is concerned, it
stands entirely on a different footing and we have
elaborately discussed it earlier. 31. The other case which has been heavily relied upon is
Andi Mukta (supra). It is no doubt held that a Mandamus
can be issued to any person or authority performing
public duty, owing positive obligation to the affected
party. The writ petition was held to be maintainable since
the teacher whose services were terminated by the
institution was affiliated to the university and was Page 49 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

governed by the Ordinances, casting certain obligations
which it owed to that petitioner. But it is not the case
here. Our attention has been drawn by the learned
counsel for the appellant to paragraphs 12, 13 and 21 of
the decision (Andi Mukta) to indicate that even according
to this case no writ would lie against the private body
except where it has some obligation to discharge which is
statutory or of public character. 32. Merely because the Reserve Bank of India lays the
banking policy in the interest of the banking system or in
the interest of monetary stability or sound economic
growth having due regard to the interests of the
depositors etc. as provided under Section 5(c)(a) of the
Banking Regulation Act does not mean that the private
companies carrying on the business of or commercial
activity of banking, discharge any public function or
public duty. These are all regulatory measures applicable
to those carrying on commercial activity in banking and
these companies are to act according to these provisions
failing which certain consequences follow as indicated in
the Act itself. Provision regarding acquisition of a banking
company by the Government, it may be pointed out that
any private property can be acquired by the Government
in public interest. It is now judicially accepted norm that
private interest has to give way to the public interest. If a
private property is acquired in public interest it does not
mean that the party whose property is acquired is
performing or discharging any function or duty of public
character though it would be so for acquiring authority. 33. For the discussion held above, in our view, a private
company carrying on banking business as a scheduled
bank, cannot be termed as an institution or company
carrying on any statutory or public duty. A private body
or a person may be amenable to writ jurisdiction only
where it may become necessary to compel such body or
association to enforce any statutory obligations or such
obligations of public nature casting positive obligation
upon it. We don't find such conditions are fulfilled in
respect of a private company carrying on a commercial
activity of banking. Merely regulatory provisions to
ensure such activity carried on by private bodies work
within a discipline, do not confer any such status upon Page 50 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

the company nor puts any such obligation upon it which
may be enforced through issue of a writ under Article 226 of the Constitution. Present is a case of disciplinary action
being taken against its employee by the appellant Bank.
Respondent's service with the bank stands terminated.
The action of the Bank was challenged by the respondent
by filing a writ petition under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India. The respondent is not trying to
enforce any statutory duty on the part of the Bank. That
being the position, the appeal deserves to be allowed. (Emphasis supplied) 168. Thus, if we apply the ratio of the decision of the
Supreme Court in the case of Federal Bank (supra), then
we have no difficulty in arriving at the conclusion that a
writ petition would not be maintainable at the instance of
the petitioners against a private bank in so far as the
challenge to the legality and validity of the notice is
concerned. 169. We may quote one more decision of the Supreme
Court, showing considerable law on the issue with which
we are dealing with, in the case of Binny Limited and
another v. V.Sadasivan and others , (2005)6 SCC 657. 10. The Writ of Mandamus lies to secure the performance
of a public or a statutory duty. The prerogative remedy of
mandamus has long provided the normal means of
enforcing the performance of public duties by public
authorities. Originally, the writ of mandamus was merely
an administrative order from the sovereign to
subordinates. In England, in early times, it was made
generally available through the Court of King's Bench,
when the Central Government had little administrative
machinery of its own. Early decisions show that there was
free use of the writ for the enforcement of public duties
of all kinds, for instance against inferior tribunals which
refused to exercise their jurisdiction or against municipal
corporation which did not duly hold elections, meetings,
and so forth. In modern times, the mandamus is used to
enforce statutory duties of public authorities. The courts
always retained the discretion to withhold the remedy
where it would not be in the interest of justice to grant it. C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

It is also to be noticed that the statutory duty imposed on
the public authorities may not be of discretionary
character. A distinction had always been drawn between
the public duties enforceable by mandamus that are
statutory and duties arising merely from contract.
Contractual duties are enforceable as matters of private
law by ordinary contractual remedies such as damages,
injunction, specific performance and declaration. In the
Administrative Law (Ninth Edition) by Sir William Wade
and Christopher Forsyth, (Oxford University Press) at
page 621, the following opinion is expressed: 11. Judicial review is designed to prevent the cases of
abuse of power and neglect of duty by public authorities.
However, under our Constitution, Article 226 is couched
in such a way that a writ of mandamus could be issued
even against a private authority. However, such private
authority must be discharging a public function and that
the decision sought to be corrected or enforced must be
in discharge of a public function. The role of the State
expanded enormously and attempts have been made to
create various agencies to perform the governmental Page 52 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

functions. Several corporations and companies have also
been formed by the government to run industries and to
carry on trading activities. These have come to be known
as Public Sector Undertakings. However, in the
interpretation given to Article 12 of the Constitution, this
Court took the view that many of these companies and
corporations could come within the sweep of Article 12 of
the Constitution. At the same time, there are private
bodies also which may be discharging public functions. It
is difficult to draw a line between the public functions and
private functions when it is being discharged by a purely
private authority. A body is performing a "public function" 12. In Regina v. Panel on Take-overs and Merges, Ex
parte Datafin Plc. And another (1987) 1 Queen's Bench
Division 815, a question arose whether the Panel of Take-
overs and Mergers had acted in concert with other
parties in breach of the City Code on Take-overs and
Mergers. The panel dismissed the complaint of the
applicants. Though the Panel on Take-over and Mergers
was purely a private body, the Court of Appeal held that
the supervisory jurisdiction of the High Court was
adaptable and could be extended to any body which
performed or operated as an integral part of a system
which performed public law duties, which was supported
by public law sanctions and which was under an
obligation to act judicially, but whose source of power
was not simply the consent of those over whom it
exercised that power; that although the panel purported
to be part of a system of self- regulation and to derive its
powers solely from the consent of those whom its
decisions affected, it was in fact operating as an integral
part of a governmental framework for the regulation of
financial activity in the City of London, was supported by
a periphery of statutory powers and penalties, and was
under a duty in exercising what amounted to public
powers to act judicially; that, therefore, the court had
jurisdiction to review the panel's decision to dismiss the
applicants' complaint; but that since, on the facts, there
were no grounds for interfering with the panel's decision,
the court would decline to intervene. 13. Lloyd L.J., agreeing with the opinion expressed by Sir
John Donaldson M.R. held : C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

 "I do not agree that the source of the power is the
 sole test whether a body is subject to judicial
 review, nor do I so read Lord Diplock's speech. Of
 course the source of the power will often, perhaps
 usually, be decisive. If the source of power is a
 statute, or subordinate legislation under a statute,
 then clearly the body in question will be subject to
 judicial review. If at the end of the scale, the source
 of power is contractual, as in the case of private
 arbitration, then clearly the arbitrator is not subject
 to judicial review. 14. In that decision, they approved the observations
made by Lord Diplock in Council of Civil Service Unions
vs. Minister for the Civil Service (1985) A.C. 374, 409
wherein it was held: 15. It is also pertinent to refer to Sir John Donaldson M.R.
in that Take-Over Panel case : C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

 "In all the reports it is possible to find enumerations
 of factors giving rise to the jurisdiction, essential or
 as being exclusive of other factors. Possibly the only
 essential elements are what can be described as a
 public element, which can take many different
 forms, and the exclusion from the jurisdiction of
 bodies whose sole source of power is a consensual
 submission to is jurisdiction." 16. The above guidelines and principles applied by
English courts cannot be fully applied to Indian conditions
when exercising jurisdiction under Article 226 or 32 of
the Constitution. As already stated, the power of the High
Courts under Article 226 is very wide and these powers
have to be exercised by applying the constitutional
provisions and judicial guidelines and violation, if any, of
the fundamental rights guaranteed in Part III of the
Constitution. In the matter of employment of workers by
private bodies on the basis of contracts entered into
between them, the courts had been reluctant to exercise
the powers of judicial review and whenever the powers
were exercised as against private employers, it was
solely done based on public law element involved
therein. 17. This view was expressly stated by this Court in
various decisions and one of the earliest decisions is the Praga Tools Corporation v. Shri C.A. Imanual and Others (1969) 1 SCC 585 In this case, the appellant company
was a company incorporated under the Indian Companies
Act and at the material time the Union Government and
the Government of Andhra Pradesh held 56 per cent and
32 per cent of its shares respectively. Respondent
workmen filed a writ petition under Article 226 in the
High Court of Andhra Pradesh challenging the validity of
an agreement entered into between the employees and
the company, seeking a writ of mandamus or an order or
direction restraining the appellant from implementing the
said agreement. The appellant raised objection as to the
maintainability of the writ petition. The learned Single
Judge dismissed the petition. The Division Bench held
that the petition was not maintainable against the
company. However, it granted a declaration in favour of
three workmen, the validity of which was challenged Page 56 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

before this Court. This Court held at pages 589-590 as
under: 18. It was also observed that when the High Court had
held that the writ petition was not maintainable, no relief
of a declaration as to invalidity of an impugned Page 57 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

agreement between the company and its employees
could be granted and that the High Court committed an
error in granting such a declaration. 19. In VST Industries Limited vs. VST Industries Workers'
Union & Anr. (2001) 1 SCC 298, the very same question
came up for consideration. The appellant-company was
engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes. A
petition was filed by the first respondent under Article
226 of the Constitution seeking a writ of mandamus to
treat the members of the respondent Union, who were
employees working in the canteen of the appellant's
factory, as employees of the appellant and for grant of
monetary and other consequential benefits. Speaking for
the Bench, Rajendra Babu, J., (as he then was), held as
follows : or a "private" body. (2) The principles of judicial review prima facie
 govern the activities of bodies performing public
 functions. (3) However, not all decisions taken by bodies in the
 course of their public functions are the subject
 matter of judicial review. In the following two
 situations judicial review will not normally be
 appropriate even though the body may be
 performing a public function (a) Where some other branch of the law more
 appropriately governs the dispute between the
 parties. In such a case, that branch of the law and
 its remedies should and normally will be applied;
 and (b) Where there is a contract between the litigants.
 In such a case the express or implied terms of the
 agreement should normally govern the matter. This
 reflects the normal approach of English law,
 namely, that the terms of a contract will normally
 govern the transaction, or other relationship
 between the parties, rather than the general law.
 Thus, where a special method of resolving disputes
 (such as arbitration or resolution by private or
 domestic tribunals) has been agreed upon by the
 parties (expressly or by necessary implication), that
 regime, and not judicial review, will normally govern
 the dispute. 20. Applying the above principles, this Court held that the
High Court rightly held that it had no jurisdiction. 21. Another decision on the same subject is General
Manager, Kisan Sahkar Chini Mills Limited, Sultanpur, UP
vs. Satrughan Nishad and Ors. (2003) 8 SCC 639. The
appellant was a cooperative society and was engaged in Page 59 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

the manufacture of sugar. The respondents were the
workers of the appellant and they filed various writ
petitions contending that they had to be treated as
permanent workmen. The appellant challenged the
maintainability of those writ petitions and applying the
principles enunciated in VST Industries ' case (supra), it
was held by this Court that the High Court had no
jurisdiction to entertain an application under Article 226 of the Constitution as the mill was engaged in the
manufacture and sale of sugar which would not involve
any public function. 22. In Federal Bank Limited vs. Sagar Thomas & Ors. (2003) 10 SCC 733, the respondent was working as a
Branch Manager of the appellant Bank. He was
suspended and there was a disciplinary enquiry wherein
he was found guilty and dismissed from service. The
respondent challenged his dismissal by filing a writ
petition. The learned Single Judge held that the Federal
Bank was performing a public duty and as such it fell
within the definition of "other authorities" under Article
12 of the Constitution. The appellant bank preferred an
appeal, but the same was dismissed and the decision of
the Division Bench was challenged before this Court. This
Court observed that a private company carrying on
business as a scheduled bank cannot be termed as
carrying on statutory or public duty and it was therefore
held that any business or commercial activity, whether it
may be banking, manufacturing units or related to any
other kind of business generating resources,
employment, production and resulting in circulation of
money which do have an impact on the economy of the
country in general, cannot be classified as one falling in
the category of those discharging duties or functions of a
public nature. It was held that that the jurisdiction of the
High Court under Article 226 could not have been
invoked in that case . 23. The counsel for the respondent in Civil Appeal No.
1976 of 1998 and for the appellant in the civil appeal
arising out of SLP(Civil) No. 6016 of 2002 strongly
contended that irrespective of the nature of the body, the
writ petition under Article 226 is maintainable provided
such body is discharging a public function or statutory Page 60 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

function and that the decision itself has the flavour of
public law element and they relied on the decision of this
Court in Andi Mukta Sadguru Shree Muktajee Vandas
Swami Suvarna Jayanti Mahotsav Smarak Trust & Ors. Vs.
V.R. Rudani & Ors (1989) 2 SCC 691. In this case, the
appellant was a Trust running a science college affiliated
to the Gujarat University under Gujarat University Act,
1949 . The teachers working in that college were paid in
the pay scales recommended by the University Grants
Commission and the college was an aided institution.
There was some dispute between the University Teachers
Association and the University regarding the fixation of
their pay scales. Ultimately, the Chancellor passed an
award and this award was accepted by the State Govt. as
well as the University and the University directed to pay
the teachers as per the award. The appellants refused to
implement the award and the respondents filed a writ
petition seeking a writ of mandamus and in the writ
petition the appellants contended that the college
managed by the Trust was not an "authority" coming
within the purview of Article 12 of the Constitution and
therefore the writ petition was not maintainable. This
plea was rejected and this Court held that the writ of
mandamus would lie against a private individual and the
words "any person or authority" used in Article 226 are
not to be confined only to statutory authorities and
instrumentalities of the State and they may cover any
other person or body performing public duty. The form of
the body concerned is not very much relevant. What is
relevant is the nature of the duty imposed on the body.
The duty must be judged in the light of positive obligation
owed by the person or authority to the affected party. No
matter by what means the duty is imposed, if a positive
obligation exists, mandamus cannot be denied. 29. Thus, it can be seen that a writ of mandamus or the
remedy under Article 226 is pre-eminently a public law
remedy and is not generally available as a remedy
against private wrongs. It is used for enforcement of
various rights of the public or to compel the
public/statutory authorities to discharge their duties and
to act within their bounds. It may be used to do justice
when there is wrongful exercise of power or a refusal to
perform duties. This writ is admirably equipped to serve
as a judicial control over administrative actions. This writ Page 61 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

could also be issued against any private body or person,
specially in view of the words used in Article 226 of the
Constitution. However, the scope of mandamus is limited
to enforcement of public duty. The scope of mandamus is
determined by the nature of the duty to be enforced,
rather than the identity of the authority against whom it
is sought. If the private body is discharging a public
function and the denial of any right is in connection with
the public duty imposed on such body, the public law
remedy can be enforced. The duty cast on the public
body may be either statutory or otherwise and the source
of such power is immaterial, but, nevertheless, there
must be the public law element in such action.
Sometimes, it is difficult to distinguish between public
law and private law remedies. According to Halsbury's
Laws of England 3rd ed. Vol. 30, page-682,

 "a public authority is a body not necessarily a
 county council, municipal corporation or other local
 authority which has public statutory duties to
 perform and which perform the duties and carries
 out its transactions for the benefit of the public and
 not for private profit." There cannot be any general definition of public authority
or public action. The facts of each case decide the point. 30. A contract would not become statutory simply
because it is for construction of a public utility and it has
been awarded by a statutory body. But nevertheless it
may be noticed that the Government or Government
authorities at all levels is increasingly employing
contractual techniques to achieve its regulatory aims. It
cannot be said that the exercise of those powers are free
from the zone of judicial review and that there would be
no limits to the exercise of such powers, but in normal
circumstances, judicial review principles cannot be used
to enforce the contractual obligations. When that
contractual power is being used for public purpose, it is
certainly amenable to judicial review. The power must be
used for lawful purposes and not unreasonably. C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT 31. The decision of the employer in these two cases to
terminate the services of their employees cannot be said
to have any element of public policy. Their cases were
purely governed by the contract of employment entered
into between the employees and the employer. It is not
appropriate to construe those contracts as opposed to
the principles of public policy and thus void and illegal
under Section 23 of the Contract Act. In contractual
matters even in respect of public bodies, the principles of
judicial review have got limited application. This was
expressly stated by this Court in State of U.P. vs. Bridge
& Roof Co. (1996) 6 SCC 22 and also in Kerala State
Electricity Board vs. Kurien E.Kalathil (2000) 6 SCC 295.
In the latter case, this Court reiterated that the
interpretation and implementation of a clause in a
contract cannot be the subject matter of a writ petition.
Whether the contract envisages actual payment or not is
a question of construction of contract. If a term of a
contract is violated, ordinarily, the remedy is not a writ
petition under Article 226. 32. Applying these principles, it can very well be said that
a writ of mandamus can be issued against a private body
which is not a State within the meaning of Article 12 of
the Constitution and such body is amenable to the
jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution and the
High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution can
exercise judicial review of the action challenged by a
party. But there must be a public law element and it
cannot be exercised to enforce purely private contracts
entered into between the parties. 170. Since we are on the issue of public functions, we
may also quote with profit a portion of the decision of the
Supreme Court in the case of Jatya Pal Singh (supra) as
contained in paragraphs 48, 51 and 52, which read thus : 1(a) the extent to which the state has assumed
 responsibility for the function in question; (b) the role and responsibility of the state in relation
 to the subject-matter in question; (c) the nature and extent of the public interest in
 the function in question; (d) the nature and extent of any statutory power or
 duty in relation to the function in question; (e) the extent to which the State, directly or
 indirectly, regulates, supervises or inspects the
 performance of the function in question; (f) the extent to which the State makes payment for
 the function in question; (g) whether the function involves or may involve
 the use of statutory coercive powers; (h) the extent of the risk that improper performance
 of the function might violate an individual's
 convention right. For the avoidance of doubt, for the purposes of Section
6(3)(b) of the Human Rights Act, 1998, as per the said
Bill a function of a public nature includes a function which
is required or enabled to be performed wholly or partially
at public expense, irrespective of : 51. This Court also quoted with approval the
Commentary on Judicial Review of Administrative Action
(Fifth Edn.) by de Smith, Woolf & Jowell in Chapter 3 para
0.24 therein it has been stated as follows : C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

 A body is performing a 'public function' when it
 seeks to achieve some collective benefit for the
 public or a section of the public and is accepted by
 the public or that section of the public as having
 authority to do so. Bodies therefore exercise public
 functions when they intervene or participate in
 social or economic affairs in the public interest. Public functions need not be the exclusive domain
 of the state. Charities, self-regulatory organizations
 and other nominally private institutions (such as
 universities, the Stock Exchange, Lloyd's of London,
 churches) may in reality also perform some types of
 public function. As Sir John Donaldson M.R. urged, it
 is important for the courts to 'recognize the realities
 of executive power' and not allow 'their vision to be
 clouded by the subtlety and sometimes complexity
 of the way in which it can be exerted'. Non- governmental bodies such as these are just as
 capable of abusing their powers as is Government. 52. These observations make it abundantly clear that in
order for it to be held that the body is performing a
public function, the appellant would have to prove that
the body seeks to achieve some collective benefit for the
public or a section of public and accepted by the public
as having authority to do so. 171. In Shri Anadi Mukta Sadguru Shree Muktajee
Vandasjiswami Suvarna Jayanti Mohtsav Smarak Trust v.
V.R.Rudani , AIR 1989 SC 1607, on which strong reliance
has been placed by Mr.Shelat in support of his
submission regarding amenability, the Supreme Court
dealt with the case of a science college at Ahmedabad,
which was being which was being run by a Trust and has
temporary affiliation to the Gujarat University under the Gujarat University Act, 1949 , which, of course, later
received permanent affiliation as amended by Gujarat
Act VI of 1973. The University teachers and those
employed in the affiliated colleges were paid in the pay
scale recommended by the University Grants
Commission. At one stage there was some dispute Page 65 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

between the University area teachers Association and the
University and the implementation of certain pay scales.
That dispute by agreement of parties was referred to the
Chancellor of the University for decision. The Chancellor
gave his award holding that the revised pay scales
should be applicable to all irrespective of the
employment under the University and affiliated college.
The State Government accepted the award of the
Chancellor and issued directions to all affiliated colleges
to pay their teachers in terms thereof. The trustees
challenged the Government's directive and approached
the University to terminate the services of the teachers
who were entitled to the revised scale of pay on the
ground that they were surplus. The Vice-Chancellor,
however, refused the request of the trustees. The
trustees then decided to close down the college and
surrendered the affiliation of the college to the
University. Teachers moved the High Court. The trustees
resisted the prayer on the grounds, inter alia: (1) the
Trust is not a statutory body and is not subject to the writ
jurisdiction of the High Court; (2) the resolution of the
University directing payment to teachers in the revised
pay scales was not binding on the trust; (3) the
University had no power to burden the trust with
additional financial liability by retrospectively revising the
pay scales; (4) the claim for gratuity by retrenched
teachers was untenable; and (5) Ordinance 120E
prescribing closure compensation was ultra vires of the
powers of the Syndicate. 172. The High Court rejected the above submissions and
accepted the writ petitions. The trustees moved the
Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has in the said
judgment considered the question of maintainability of
the writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution in
these words (AIR 1989 SC 1607 at pp.1610-1613) : Article 226 reads: xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx

The scope of this article has been explained by Subba
Rao, J., in Dwarkanath v. Income-tax Officer , AIR 1966 SC
81 at pp.84-85,

This article is couched in comprehensive phraseology and
it ex facie confers a wide power on the High Courts to
reach injustice wherever it is found. The Constitution
designedly used a wide language in describing the nature
of the power, the purpose for which and the person or
authority against whom it can be exercised. It can issue
writs in the nature of prerogative writs as understood in
England; but the use of the expression "nature", for the
said expression does not equate the writs that can be
issued in India with those in England, but only draws an
analogy from them. That apart, High Courts can also
issue directions, orders or writs other than the
prerogative writs. It enables the High Courts to mould the
reliefs to meet the peculiar and complicated
requirements of this country. Any attempt to equate the
scope of the power of the High Court under Art. 226 of
the Constitution with that of the English Courts to issue
prerogative writs is to introduce the unnecessary
procedural restrictions grown over the years in a
comparatively small country like England with a unitary Page 70 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

form of Government into a vast country like India
functioning under a federal structure. Such a construction
defeats the purpose of the article itself." The term "authority" used in Art. 226 , in the context,
must receive a liberal meaning unlike the term in Art. 12. Article 12 is relevant only for the purpose of enforcement
of fundamental rights under Art. 32. Article 226 confers
power on the High Courts to issue writs for enforcement
of the fundamental rights as well as non-fundamental
rights. The words "Any person or authority" used in Art.
226 are, therefore, not to be confined only to statutory
authorities and instrumentalities of the State. They may
cover any other person or body performing public duty.
The form of the body concerned is not very much
relevant. What is relevant is the nature of the duty
imposed on the body. The duty must be judged in the
light of positive obligation owed by the person or
authority to the affected_ party. No matter by what
means the duty is imposed. If a positive obligation exists
mandamus cannot be denied. In Praga Tools Corporation v. C.V. Imanual , , this Court
said that a mandamus can issue against a person or body
to carry but the duties placed on them by the Statutes
even though they are not public officials or statutory
body. It was observed (at p. 778 of 1969-3 SCR): (at pp
1309-10 of AIR): Distinction between `public law' and `private law' : But those categories are not exhaustive. The courts can
extend them to any other person or body of a public
nature exercising public duties which it is desirable to
control by the remedy of judicial review. There are many cases which give guidance, but I will just
give some illustrations. Every body which is created by statute and whose
powers and duties are defined by statute is a 'public
authority'. So Government departments, local authorities,
police authorities, and statutory undertakings and
corporations, are all `public authorities'. So are members
of a statutory tribunal or inquiry, and the board of visitors
of a prison. The Criminal Injuries Compensation Board is a
public authority. So also, I suggest, is a university
incorporated by Royal charter; and the managers of a
State School. So is the Boundary Commission: and the
Committee of Lloyd's. But a limited liability company incorporated under the
Companies Acts is not a 'public authority'; (see Tozer v.
National Greyhound Racing Club Ltd. (1983) Times, 16
May). Nor is an unincorporated association like the Jockey
Club... ". (see pp. 122, 123, 124) 38. Sir Harry Woolf, a Lord Justice of Court of Appeal,
points out the distinction in the following words :- The learned Law Lord stated further in the same Article,
at page 223 : The position may, however, be different pointed out the
learned Law Lord if such relationship is circumscribed by
a statutory provision. 39. In this context, it would be appropriate to refer to two
important English decisions, where a public duty was
implied even in the absence of a statutory provisions.
They are R. v. Criminal Injuries Compensation Board, ex
parte Lain (1967) 2 All ER 770, and R. v. Panel on take-
overs (1987) 1 All ER 564. In Criminal Injuries
Compensation Board, the relevant facts are the following: It was further observed: The same idea was put forward by Diplock, L.J., in his
separate opinion, where he said : Ashworth, J., justified the issue of certiorari in that case
on the following basis: 40. This decision has since been followed and applied in
several English decisions. It would suffice to refer to R. v.
Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, Ex Parte Datafin (1987)
1 All ER 564. The Panel on Take-overs and Mergers was a
self-regulating unincorporated association which devised
and operated the City Code on Take-overs and Mergers
prescribing a Code of Conduct to be observed in the take-
overs of listed public companies. The panel had no direct
statutory, prerogative or common law powers, nor were
its powers based solely on consensus; its acts were
supported and sustained by certain statutory powers and
penalties introduced after the inception of the Panel. A
decision of the panel was sought to be questioned by
way of certiorari. One of the objections of the
respondents was that the supervisory jurisdiction of the
Court was confined to bodies whose power was derived
solely from legislation or the exercise of the prerogative,
and that the power of judicial review did not extend to a Page 81 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

body such as the Panel on Takeovers. Overruling this
objection, it was held that in determining whether the
decisions of a particular body were subject to judicial
review, the Court was not confined to considering the
source of that body's powers and duties, but could also
look to their nature. Accordingly, if the duty imposed on a
body, whether expressly or by implication, was a public
duty and the body was exercising public law functions,
the Court had jurisdiction to entertain an application for
judicial review of that body's decisions. It was held that,
having regard to the wide-ranging nature and importance
of the matters covered by the City Code on Take-overs
and Mergers and to the public consequences of
noncompliance with the Code, the Panel on Takeovers
and Mergers was performing a public duty when
prescribing and administering the Code and its rules and
was subject to public law remedies. Accordingly, it was
held that an application for judicial review would lie in an
appropriate case. The approach to be adopted in such
cases, it was stated by Sir John Donaldson, M.R., is"to
recognize the realities of executive power".This is what
the learned Master of Rolls stated :- This rule was reiterated in yet another decision of the
Court of Appeal in R. v. Panel on Take-overs and Mergers,
ex parte Guinness, (1989) 1 All ER 509. This was indeed
the approach indicated by Mathew, J. in Sukhdev v.
Bhagatram, AIR 1975 SC 1331, when the learned Judge
spoke of "the governing power, wherever located" being
subjected to "fundamental constitutional limitations". The
learned Judge felt that "the need to subject the power
centres to the control of the Constitution requires an
expansion of the concept of State action". (see para 93 at
p. 1352). 181. Applying the above test, the Bank herein cannot be
called a public body. It has no duty towards the public.
It's duty is towards its account holders, which may
include the borrowers having availed of the loan facility.
It has no power to take any action, or pass any order
affecting the rights of the members of the public. The
binding nature of its orders and actions is confined to its
account holders and borrowers and to its employees. Its
functions are also not akin to Governmental functions. 182. We may also quote with profit a Full Bench decision
of the Bombay High Court in the case of Shamrao Vithal
Co-operative Bank Ltd. v. Padubidri Pattabhiram Bhat ,
AIR 1993 Bombay 91. The issue before the Full Bench of
the Bombay High Court was whether the appellant-Bank
was "State" within the meaning of Article 12 of the
Constitution of India, and whether the writ-petition was
maintainable against the appellants. In view of conflict of
two decisions of the High Court, the matter was referred
to a Larger Bench for determination. It was submitted
that a Co-operative Bank, performed an important public
function and that itself was sufficient for coming to the
conclusion that it was a "State" under Article 12. It was
also submitted that in a welfare State, the definition of
"Governmental functions" had to be widened to include
within its scope of functions, which were of public
importance. Hence, any organization which performs a
public function must be considered as a "State" under Article 12. The Full Bench took the view that it was too
broad a proposition and sounded a note of caution
considering the decision of the Supreme Court in the Page 83 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT case of Ajay Hasai (supra). The Court took the view that
every organization which carried out a function, which
was of public importance, did not necessarily become
"State" under Article 12. Conferment of "Statehood"
depended upon various other factors also, such as the
nexus of such organizations with the State, the extent of
State control etc. The following observations of the Full
Bench are worth taking note of :- 183. What is complained before us is the procedural
arbitrariness on the part of the bank. We have examined
the constitutional validity of the Master Circular issued by
the Reserve Bank of India at the instance of the
petitioners of Special Civil Application No.10120 of 2014,
but it is difficult for us to also look into the proposed Page 84 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

 action on the part of the Standard Chartered Bank on the
 premise that the show-cause notice which has been
 issued is lacking in material particulars. 184. Such being the position, we hold that the Standard
 Chartered Bank being a private bank is not amenable to
 the writ jurisdiction of this Court under Article 226 of the
 Constitution of India. 185. If the petitioners are aggrieved in any manner with
 the mode and method of inquiry pursuant to the show-
 cause notice issued upon them, then it would be open for
 them to challenge the same in accordance with law
 before the appropriate authority." 36. With all odds against the writ applicant, I am still
persuaded to take the view that I should not throw away this
writ application on the ground that the same is not
maintainable in law. It is evident from the materials on record
that it all started with the statutory inspection of the Bank by
the officials of the RBI under section 35 of the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949. According to the RBI, the writ applicant
managed to avail loan facility from the Mehsana Urban
Cooperative Bank Ltd. (for short "the MUCBL) in the companies
in which he himself and his relatives are interested. The
allegations of the RBI are that this was done clandestinely with
a view to overcome the provisions of the statutory directions
issued by the RBI prohibiting loans and advances in favour of
the directors and their relatives. It is also the case of the RBI
that the statutory inspection of the MUCBL revealed several
irregularities and violation of the provisions of the Banking
Regulation Act as well as the directions issued by the RBI time
to time. It is also alleged by the RBI that the MUCBL had
sanctioned loans and advances to eight
firms/concerns/companies, in which, the directors on the board
of the Bank were interested and that includes the writ Page 85 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

applicant herein. In such circumstances , referred to above , the
first thing that the RBI did was to address a letter to the
MUCBL to ensure that the writ applicant and similarly situated
directors step down from the Board of Directors. It was a
positive mandate of the RBI to the MUCBL in this regard. I
also take notice of the letter dated dated 2nd May, 2018
addressed by the Government of India to the MUCBL calling
upon the MUCBL to explain as to why such Directors had not
yet stepped down despite the instructions from the RBI. 37. Taking all this into consideration, the MUCBL, ultimately,
passed a resolution No.159 which is at page-133 of the paper-
book, Annexure-I, unanimously resolving to issue letter to the
concerned Directors that they would cease to be the Director
of the Bank with effect from 24th August, 2018. At the cost of
repetition, I may quote a portion of the said resolution, which
reads thus; 38. Thus, the facts of this case are quite peculiar. The
mandate or the instructions issued by the RBI and the
Government of India may be a part of the regulatory
measures, but the fact remains that the MUCBL acted upon
such instructions and the action taken by the MUCBL has been
further endorsed by the RBI as well as the Government of
India. C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT 39. I am of the view that this is not a matter in which the writ
application has been brought against an independent action of
the Multi-State Cooperative Bank. It is obvious that the action
at the instance of the MUCBL is on the basis of the directives
issued by the RBI. It could be argued that the RBI merely gave
a reminder to the MUCBL to act in accordance with its policy
and the guidelines and that by itself cannot be termed as an
action taken by the RBI. However, the peculiar facts of this
case has persuaded me to take the view that this writ
application can be said to be maintainable. 40. In Ionic Metalliks (supra), the Division Bench of this Court,
to which I was a party, has discussed in details as regards the
maintainability of a writ application under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India against a private Bank. In Ionic Metalliks (supra), the Bank involved was the Standard Chartered Bank.
The Standard Chartered Bank issued a show-cause notice to
the borrower calling upon him to show-cause as to why he
should not be declared as a willful defaulter. Having regard to
the subject matter, this Court, after exhaustive discussion,
took the view that a writ petition is not maintainable against a
private Bank. This Court also took the view that the show-
cause notice issued to a defaulter was a part of the regulatory
measures which the Bank was otherwise obliged to undertake
in accordance with the guidelines issued by the RBI. The facts
of the present case are slightly different and stands on
altogether a different footing compared to the facts of Ionic
Metalliks (supra). 41. As regards the powers of the High Court, to issue
prerogative writs under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, Page 87 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

the issue has been dealt with by the Supreme Court and the
High Courts on several occasions. Before even referring to
such rulings, it would be relevant to note the very expressions
in Article 226 of the Constitution of India to "any person or
authority" and "for the enforcement of the rights conferred by
Part III and "for any other purpose". The said expressions
would be sufficient to hold that there is no fetter or limitation
on the power of the Court to issue a writ as against any class
of persons as well as statutory authorities. The power is wide
enough to reach any one dealing with any situation for the
purpose of enforcing not only the fundamental rights, but also
for any other purpose and to enforce legal rights of the citizens
and statutory obligations and duties on the part of the
Governmental, Statutory authorities, private companies and
individuals. The series of restrictions which are enumerated by
the various Courts are only self imposed restraints aimed at
using the extraordinary power only to deserving situations.
There is no difficulty while exercising the power as against the
Government, Statutory authorities, Corporations and the
Establishments coming within the definition of "State" under Article 12 of the Constitution of India. But when it comes to
issuing a writ against private companies, establishments and
individuals, the ground for exercising the power are restricted
and narrowed down having regard to the extraordinary nature
of the power and the availability of alternative remedies. Some
of the grounds which would weigh against the exercise of the
power are (i) availability of effective alternative remedy (2)
absence of any public duty; (3) laches and unreasonable delay
in approaching the Court; (4) Need to deal with and adjudicate
upon complicated facts which would require detailed evidence
oral or documentary etc. These are the factors which would Page 88 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

dissuade the Courts from exercising the jurisdiction. But even
if these dissuading factors exist, yet the Court can issue a writ,
if the situation and interest of justice warrant interference and
the monstrosity of the situation is such that refusal to exercise
such power would result in grave injustice. 42. The observations made above are only culled out from
the various judgments of the Supreme Court. Therefore, it
would be a misnomer to say that a writ petition is not
maintainable except where it is barred under the Constitution
itself specifically. In other cases, it is a matter of exercise of
discretion by the Court to issue or not to issue a writ. 43. Though the earlier decisions of the Supreme Court prior
to and immediately after the Constitution prescribed stringent
grounds for issuing writs, the Supreme Court subsequently
held that having regard to the far-reaching expressions used in Article 226 of the Constitution of India, there was no
justification to look back nor to feel oppressed by the earlier
history of the writs in English law vide the judgment of the
Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in T.C.BASAPPA v.
T.NAGAPPA . AIR 1954 SC 440. 44. In ROHTAS INDUSTRIES v. ITS UNION 1976 AIR 425 the
Supreme Court observed as follows:- 45. The view taken by me in this matter as regards the
maintainability of the present writ application under Article
226 of the Constitution against a Multi-State Cooperative
Scheduled Bank in the peculiar facts of the case is fortified by
a Full Bench decision of the High Court of Himachal Pradesh in
the case of Vikram Chauhan vs. Managing Director , AIR
(HP) 2013 083. The Hon'ble Chief Justice A.M. Khanwilkar (as
his lordship then was) speaking for the Bench made the
following observations; 46. The Full Bench, ultimately, while proceeding to answer
the reference apart from the answers to the other questions
answered the question with regard to the maintainability of a
writ application against a cooperative bank as under; 47. Having taken the view that in the peculiar facts of the
case the writ application is maintainable, the next question
that falls for my consideration is whether the action of the
MUCBL is justified in law. In this regard, I am of the view that
an appropriate authority of the RBI or any other authority that
may be appointed by the RBI should give an opportunity of
hearing to the writ applicant as regards his role in the two
companies is concerned, namely, (I) Vimal Dairy Ltd. and (ii)
Swastik Ceracon Ltd. There is nothing on record to indicate
that any opportunity of hearing had been given to the writ
applicant In this regard except few correspondence in writing.
The writ applicant is an elected Director of the MUCBL. He has
been asked to step down from the office. Asking him to step
down from the office of the post of the Director would
definitely have some civil consequences. In such
circumstances, one opportunity of hearing should be given to
the writ applicant. Thereafter, it shall be open for the authority
concerned to take an appropriate decision and pass an
appropriate order in accordance with law. 48. There is one more reason why I am persuaded to hold
that this writ application is maintainable. At the cost of
repetition, I refer to the amended bye-laws framed by the
Bank under the Act, 2002, more particularly, bye-law No.39, Page 94 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

which is in respect to the removal of the elected directors by
the General Body. Bye-law No.39 has been referred to in the
earlier part of the judgment. This particular bye-law No.39
makes it very clear that an elected director of the Board can
be removed on the basis of the report of the Central Registrar
or upon resolution of the General Body passed by its meeting
by majority not less than 2/3rd of the members present if it is
found that the Director concerned shall not be removed unless
he has been given a reasonable opportunity of making a
representation in the matter. This word representation is
sought to be read and understood as a written representation
and nothing beyond that. To put it in other words, it is sought
to be argued on behalf of the respondents that for the purpose
of invoking bye-law No.39, there is no obligation to give a
personal hearing to the concerned Director before his
removal. 49. I am not impressed by such a submission. Reasonable
opportunity of making a representation should be read as an
opportunity of hearing to the concerned Director in person. It
may not be feasible or possible to explain everything in a
representation. In such circumstances, if an opportunity is
given to a concerned Director of personal hearing in person,
the same may make a difference. 50. I am of the view that the bye-law No.39 has not been
complied with in its proper perspective. In such a situation, an
order passed by the CEO of the Bank on the basis of the
resolution passed by the Board of Directors against one of its
Directors in violation of the bye-laws, can be corrected by way
of a writ petition. This is not because the bye-laws have the Page 95 of 96 C/SCA/12852/2018 JUDGMENT

force of law, but on the ground that having framed the bye-
laws prescribing the mode and method of removal of a
Director, the Society must follow them, in the interest of
fairness. If it is left to the sweet will and pleasure of the Society
either to follow or not to follow the bye-laws, it would be
inherently arbitrary, and may very likely give rise to
discriminatory treatment. (see Srikonaseema Co-operative
Central Bank Ltd. & Another Vs. N. Seetharama Raja, Air 1990
Andhra Pradesh 171) 51. In view of the above, this writ application is allowed in
part. The communication dated 16th August, 2018 of the
MUCBL to the writ applicant, Annexure-A to this writ
application, Page-16 is hereby quashed. The RBI shall give one
opportunity of hearing to the writ applicant and, thereafter,
take an appropriate decision in accordance with law. While
giving an opportunity of hearing to the writ applicant, the
MUCBL shall also be heard through one of its authorized
officers, and a representative from the Government of India
(Ministry of Agriculture) shall also be heard. Let this exercise
be undertaken at the earliest and an appropriate decision shall
be taken within a period of three months from the date of the
receipt of the writ of this order. 52. With the above, this writ application is disposed of. (J.B.PARDIWALA, J)

Vahid Page 96 of 96