DR. SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J. (Oral) 1. By way of the present application, the applicant seeks grant of
 regular bail in case arising out of FIR bearing no. RC221/2025/E0006
 registered at Police Station EO-III, Delhi, for the commission of
 offence punishable under Section 61(2)/308/318(4)/319(2) of the
 Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 (hereinafter „BNS‟) and Section
 66C/66D/66 read with Section 43 of the Information Technology Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 5013/2025 Page 1 of 10 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:04.02.2026 18:21:14 Act, 2000 (hereinafter „ IT Act ‟). 2. The brief facts of the present case are that a regular case was
 registered on the basis of reliable source information indicating that a
 group of individuals based in India, primarily operating from Delhi,
 and certain other locations, was running a sophisticated cyber-
 enabled fraud scheme targeting victims in Japan. The perpetrators
 were involved in technical support scams, wherein fake virus alerts
 and phishing prompts were displayed on the computer screens of
 unsuspecting users. These pop-ups, hosted on malicious URLs that
 largely used Microsoft Azure servers, were designed to create panic
 by falsely warning users that their systems were infected with
 viruses. The victims were then instructed to contact a specified phone
 number displayed on the screen. Upon establishing contact, the
 operatives, while impersonating representatives of reputed entities
 such as Microsoft or Apple, induced the victims to install remote
 access software. By doing so, the accused persons gained
 unauthorized control over the victims‟ computers and access to
 sensitive financial information, which was subsequently used to
 defraud them. Four such Japanese victims specified in the FIR were
 Sakai Takaharu, Koji Suzuki, Masashi Matsui, and Shinagawa Ku. 3. Pursuant to the registration of the FIR, searches were
 conducted at various locations. On 28.05.2025, co-accused Rohit
 Maurya, who was involved in creating fraudulent pop-ups, and co-
 accused Kapil Gakhar, who had received Bitcoin from the Binance
 account of the Japanese victim Sakai Takaharu, were arrested. On Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 5013/2025 Page 2 of 10 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:04.02.2026 18:21:14 29.05.2025, co-accused Shubham Jaiswal, Vivek Raj, and Adarsh
 Kumar, who were working as fraud callers/technical salespersons at a
 call centre operating under the name "Tekku Samurai" in Varanasi,
 were arrested. At the time of their arrest, they were found allegedly in
 possession of several incriminating devices. 4. During the investigation, the co-accused Shubham Jaiswal,
 Vivek Raj, and Adarsh Kumar disclosed that they were working in a
 call center named Tekku Samurai at Varanasi, and they led the CBI to
 the location of the call centre where it was operating. Further, when
 the search of the premises of the said call centre was carried out,
 mobile phones and computer systems were recovered containing fake
 identity cards impersonating Microsoft employees, images of
 Japanese victims sharing their confidential banking details,
 information relating to gift cards, logs of applications used for
 cheating Japanese victims, and other incriminating digital material.
 The investigation further revealed that Komal Kumar (the present
 applicant/accused), along with one Amit Singh Bhadoria, is the joint
 owner/partner of the said call centre. The applicant was arrested on
 20.07.2025, whereas the other partner, Amit Singh Bhadoria, is still
 absconding, and the supplementary charge sheet against the
 applicant/accused and the partnership firm was filed on 17.09.2025. 5. The learned senior counsel appearing for the present accused
 /applicant argues that the applicant is a law-abiding citizen with clean
 antecedents and has been falsely implicated in the present case,
 having no nexus whatsoever with the alleged acts of cheating the Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 5013/2025 Page 3 of 10 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:04.02.2026 18:21:14 Japanese nationals. It is argued that the offences alleged against the
 applicant carry a maximum punishment of seven years, yet the
 mandatory procedure was grossly violated as no notice under Section
 41A of the Cr.P.C. (now Section 35 of the BNSS, 2023) was issued
 to the applicant, and he was mechanically arrested on 20.07.2025.
 Further, the prosecution‟s assertion that the applicant was evading
 arrest is wholly incorrect, and the fact of his arrest at the airport is
 being misleadingly portrayed as an attempt to flee the country,
 despite the applicant/accused having no knowledge of any pending
 investigation at the relevant time. It is further argued that even as per
 the prosecution‟s own case, the applicant had no role in the
 perpetration of the alleged offences against the victims in Japan and
 has merely been roped in on the ground of being the owner of the call
 centre where the co-accused were allegedly working, without there
 being any material to show that the acts of the co-accused were
 committed at his instance or with his knowledge. The learned senior
 counsel further submits that the alleged transfer of Rs. 14.7 crores to
 the account of the call centre from M/s Bidder Media is an
 independent commercial transaction having no connection with the
 alleged fraud against Japanese nationals. It is further argued that
 other co-accused persons have already been granted bail, entitling the
 applicant/accused to parity. Further, it has to be considered that the
 chargesheet has already been filed, the evidence is predominantly
 documentary and digital in nature, and therefore, there is no
 possibility of tampering with evidence. Charges are yet to be framed,
 and the trial is likely to take a considerable time to conclude. The Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 5013/2025 Page 4 of 10 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:04.02.2026 18:21:14 applicant has remained in custody since 20.07.2025. Therefore, it is
 prayed that the applicant be enlarged on regular bail. 6. On the other hand, the learned SPP for the CBI argues that the
 applicant is the main accused, who is involved in a well-organised
 cybercrime syndicate, wherein the victims are citizens of Japan. It is
 contended that the co-accused persons, namely Shubham Jaiswal,
 Vivek Raj, and Adash Kumar, who were actively participating in the
 commission of the fraud, were working at the call centre operating
 under the name "Tekku Samurai", of which the applicant/accused is
 a partner holding 50% shares. It is further argued that during the
 course of the investigation, it was revealed that an amount of about
 ₹14.7 crores was transferred from a company named "Bidder Media" 7. This Court has heard arguments addressed by the learned
 senior counsel for the applicant and the learned SPP for CBI, and has
 perused the material on record. 8. In the present case, it is noted that during the investigation, the
 co-accused persons, namely Shubham Jaiswal, Vivek Raj, and
 Adarsh Kumar, had led the CBI team to a call centre known as Tekku
 Samurai, situated in Varanasi. The present accused/applicant is a
 partner in the said call centre, along with one Amit Singh Bhadoria
 who is also named as an accused and is presently absconding. 9. It is pertinent to note that SSDs seized from the call centre
 revealed the use of the "Zoiper" application for contacting victims
 through VoIP services. Call logs recovered from the seized devices Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 5013/2025 Page 6 of 10 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:04.02.2026 18:21:14 contained lists of Japanese telephone numbers, clearly indicating
 systematic targeting of victims based in Japan. The investigation
 further revealed that the agents operating from the call centre used to
 impersonate representatives of reputed technology companies, such
 as Microsoft, and forged identity cards in this regard, which were
 recovered from the seized digital devices. 10. The investigation also disclosed that the employees of the call
 centre followed a predetermined pitch, whereby the victims were
 falsely informed of non-existent technical issues in their devices and
 were induced to install antivirus software or purchase multi-year
 service packages at quoted prices. The same pitching scripts and
 quotations were recovered from the seized devices, corroborating the
 modus operandi. Additionally, screenshots containing confidential
 banking details of the victims were found stored on the devices
 seized by the police. It was further revealed that gift cards were used
 as a mode of payment, and screenshots of gift cards along with their
 redeemable codes, sufficient to procure money, were also recovered
 from the devices seized from the call centre. 11. It is of relevance that Tekku Samurai was a partnership firm
 comprising the applicant/accused and Amit Singh Bhadoria, each
 holding an equal share of 50%. Documents collected from
 Alphathum, Noida, the owner of the premises from where the call
 centre was operating, including the rent agreement, registration deed,
 and KYC forms, confirmed the role of the applicant/accused as a
 partner in the firm. This position is further corroborated by records Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 5013/2025 Page 7 of 10 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:04.02.2026 18:21:14 obtained from Etherea Ventures Pvt. Ltd., which disclose that Tekku
 Samurai made a payment of ₹15 lakhs from its ICICI Bank account
 on 07.12.2024 towards the final settlement of rent dues. 12. Furthermore, the bank account, i.e., 15********19 of Tekku
 Samurai, registered in the firm‟s name, was registered under mobile
 number 72******29, which is in the name of Harjeet Kaur, the wife
 of the applicant herein. It is to be noted that she admitted that the
 present applicant used to use the bank account. 13. Further, it is pertinent to note that the statement reflected in the
 bank statements of Tekku Samurai contains entries such as
 „ProfShare2324‟, „ProfShareDec24‟, and „ProfShareOct23‟, pursuant
 to which amounts were transferred from the account of Tekku
 Samurai to the personal bank account of the applicant herein. The
 said narrations prima facie indicate that the transfers were made
 towards the applicant‟s share of profits, which shows that the
 applicant was not merely associated with, but was an active partner in
 the operations of Tekku Samurai. 14. Further, this Court also notes that an amount of Rs. 14.7 crores
 (approximately) was transferred from the company Bidder Media to
 Tekku Samurai during the period from May 2023 to May 2025.
 However, it is material to note that investigation has revealed that
 Bidder Media was registered on 06.08.2018, and its registration
 expired on 05.11.2022. Despite the expiry of its registration,
 substantial funds were transferred to the account of Tekku Samurai
 after the said period, which also raises suspicion regarding the Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 5013/2025 Page 8 of 10 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:04.02.2026 18:21:14 legitimacy of these transactions. 15. As regards the plea of parity, the same is clearly unmerited in
 this Court‟s view, inasmuch as the other co-accused persons were
 merely employees - working under the control and supervision of the
 present applicant. The material on record prima facie indicates that
 the said employees were carrying out the fraudulent activities at the
 instance and on the instructions of the applicant, who is one of the
 owners of the call centre in question. In these circumstances, the role
 attributed to the applicant is clearly distinguishable and far more
 serious, and therefore, no ground of parity arises for enlarging the
 applicant on bail. 16. It is also noted that the learned SPP appearing for the CBI has
 informed the Court that a request has been sent to the concerned
 authorities in Japan seeking information and statements of the
 victims. However, the names of the victims have already been
 mentioned in the charge-sheet. 17. Considering the overall facts and circumstances of the present
 case, particularly the fact that the other partner of Tekku Samurai is
 still absconding, and further noting that the applicant, if released on
 bail, would be in a position of authority over the co-accused and
 other employees, this Court is of the view that there is a likelihood of
 the applicant influencing them and interfering with the course of
 investigation. Accordingly, this Court is not inclined to grant regular
 bail to the applicant/accused. 18. The present bail application is, accordingly, dismissed. 19. It is, however, clarified that nothing expressed hereinabove
 shall tantamount to an expression of opinion on merits of the case. 20. The order be uploaded on the website forthwith. DR. SWARANA KANTA SHARMA, J
 FEBRUARY 02, 2026/A
 RB/GJ Signature Not Verified BAIL APPLN. 5013/2025 Page 10 of 10 Digitally Signed By:ZEENAT PRAVEEN Signing Date:04.02.2026 18:21:14