(Delivered on this 5th day of October, 2020)

 (S.C. SHARMA) (SHAILENDRA SHUKLA)
 JUDGE JUDGE
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -3- HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH: BENCH AT INDORE
 DIVISION BENCH : HON'BLE SHRI JUSTICE S.C. SHARMA &
 HON'BLE SHRI JUSTICE SHAILENDRA SHUKLA Writ Appeal No.92/2014 State of Madhya Pradesh & Others
 Versus

 Khasgi (Devi Ahilya Bai Holkar Charities) Trust, Indore & Others Writ Appeal No.135/2014 State of Madhya Pradesh & Others
 Versus

 Khasgi (Devi Ahilya Bai Holkar Charities) Trust, Indore & Others Writ Petition No.11234/2020 Vipin Dhanaitkar
 Versus

 State of Madhya Pradesh & Others

 Shri P.K. Saxena, learned senior counsel along with Shri Rishi
Tiwari, learned counsel for the appellants / State in Writ Appeals and for
respondent No.1 in Writ Petition. Shri Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel along with Shri Abhinav
Malhotra, learned counsel for respondent No.1 in Writ Appeals. Shri Shyam Divan, learned senior counsel along with Shri Abhinav
Malhotra and Ms. Sugandha Yadav, learned counsel for respondent No.2 in
Writ Appeal No.92/2014. A.K. Chitale, learned senior counsel along with Shri Kartik Chitale,
learned counsel for respondents No.1 and 2 in W.A. No.92/2014 and for
respondents No.6 to 9 in Writ Petition. Shri S.C. Bagadia, learned senior counsel along with Shri Vivek
Patwa, learned counsel for respondent Nos.1-A, 1-B and 1-D in W.A.
No.135/2014. Shri A.S. Garg, learned senior counsel along with Ms. Poorva
Mahajan, learned counsel for respondent No.4 in W.A. No..92/2014 and
for respondent No.5 in Writ Petition. Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -4- Shri Sameer Saxena, learned counsel for Intervenor in all cases. Shri Ashish Joshi, learned counsel for Intervenor in all cases. Shri Milind Phadke, learned Additional Solicitor General along
with Shri Manoj Manav, learned counsel for Union of India. Shri Rohit Sharma, learned counsel for the petitioner in Writ
Petition (PIL). Shri V.K. Jain, learned senior counsel along with Shri Vaibhav Jain,
learned counsel for respondents No.11 to 13 in Writ Petition. Shri Shekhar Bhargav, learned senior counsel along with Ms. Anika
Bajpai, learned counsel for respondent No.3 in W.A. No.135/2014. All parties have been served in the both the Writ Appeals. ORDER
 (Delivered on this 5th day of October, 2020 )

Per : S.C. Sharma, J: 02. It was stated in the writ petition that the petitioners /
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -5- Trust therein is a religious and charitable trust constituted
on 27.06.1962. It was further stated in writ petition that the
Trust and its activities were initiated by the erstwhile Ruler
of Holkar State from the year 1761 - 1948, and thereafter,
on account of merger, the Holkar State merged into Madhya
Bharat. 03. The petitioners / Trust therein came up before the
learned Single Judge with a case that on account of
covenant executed by the parties, the private property, as
per the schedule appended to the covenant, became the
exclusive properties of the Maharaja, the other properties
became the exclusive properties of Madhya Bharat (State of
Madhya Pradesh) and a third species of property, which was
not the State's property or the personal property of the
Rulers of Holkar State, were the Trust's properties and in
those backdrop, a Trust was constituted on 27.06.1962. 04. It has been further contended that in order to
provide various checks and balances to ensure the public
character of the Trust, the trust deed provided various
safeguards including appointment of six trustees out of
which three were government / public nominees. It has been
contended that various recitals of the trustees also records
that in the budget of Holkar State for the year 1947 - 48, a
provision was made for Rs.2,91,952/- for maintenance of
Khasgi Charities and the State Government has also issued
a gazette notification on 27.07.1962 regarding the setting up
of the Khasgi Trust and handing over the Khasgi properties
to the Trust. 05. It was further contended by the petitioners / Trust in
the writ petition that the covenant, which Maharaja
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -6- Yashwant Rao Holkar had entered into with Government of
India and other Rulers of the princely State of Central India
to form the United State of Madhya Pradesh, did not deal
specifically with the Khasgi properties and there was only a
general provision contained in Article VII (2)(c) for dealing
with the properties like the Khasgi properties and the same
reads as under:- 06. The petitioners before the learned Single Judge have
further stated that for Gangajali Fund of Gwalior State an
act called Gangajali Fund Trust Act, 1954 (Madhya Bharat
Act No.11 of 1954) was enacted by the Madhya Bharat
Legislature and was repealed later, however, for the Khasgi
Charties and religious endowment in the Holkar State, a
tripartite instrument was entered into between Government
of India, Government of Madhya Pradesh and Maharaja
Yashwant Rao Holkar on 07.05.1949. The Trust has
categorically stated in the writ petition that petitionerss /
Trust do not have a copy of said instrument. 07. It has been further stated that as per the trust deed of
Khasgi (Devi Ahilyabai Holkar Charities) Trust, there are
246 charities of diverse nature such as 138 temples, 18
Dharamshalas, 34 Ghats, 12 Chhatries, 24 Bagichas, Kund
and other miscellaneous properties. They are situated in
Varanasi, Ayodhaya, Nemisharanya, Allahabad, Haridwar,
Pushkar, Omkareshwar, Pandharpur, Choundhi, Gokaran,
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -7- Rameshwar, Vrindavan, Burhanpur, Trayambkeshwar,
Amarkantak, Nashik, Chandwad Wafgaon, Sambalgaon,
Sansthan Chhatri Maheshwar, Indore City and Indore
District, Manasa, Rampura, Bhanpura, Alampur, Tarana,
Maheshwar and other places. 08. It has been further stated that grant of Rs.2,91,952/-
was inadequate to maintain the properties and for the
purposes of generating income, a need arose to dispose of
the trust property. It has been stated that in the year 1969,
Shri S.V. Kanoongo, the then nominee of the Central
Government of the Board of Trustees, sought a clarification
from the State Government vide letter dated 09.05.1969 in
respect of sale of properties and the then Chief Secretary,
Shri M.P. Shrivastava, vide letter dated 13.06.1969, has
informed the Trust that the Government does not come into
picture in respect of sale of properties. 09. It has been further stated by the Trust that based
upon the letter of the Chief Secretary, Shri M.P.
Shrivastava, the trust deed was amended by executing a
supplementary deed of trust on 08.03.1972, which provided
a clause for sale of the Trust properties and the same reads
as under:- 10. It has been further stated by the Trust that the Trust
was enjoying special status, it was duly recognized by the
Registrar, M.P. Public Trust, Indore and the Registrar has
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -8- granted exemption to the Trust form the applicability of the
M.P. Public Trust Act, 1956 by treating it as a Trust
administered by an agency acting under the control of the
State Government. 11. It has further been contended by the Trust that it
was carrying out thankless job, duty and responsibility of
management of Trust and was also looking after upkeep of
the Khasgi properties including temples, dharamshala, ghats
etc. and it was autonomous institution. It has been
contended by the Trust that the Collector, Indore has got no
power to interfere and intervene or assert any right in
respect of the properties vested in the Trust by claiming the
same to be the State Government's properties. 12. It has further stated by the Trust that one of the
property i.e. Ghats at Haridwar was to be sold and a
resolution was passed by the trustees in the meeting which
took place on 05.06.2008 in respect of Haridwar properties.
It has been stated that the resolution was passed to sell the
Haridwar property, as it was in the interest of the Trust and
the property was sold for Rs.50,00,000/-. The money was
deposited in the Khasgi Trust Account in the State Bank of
India, Prince Yashwant Road Branch, Indore, 13. It has further been contended by the Trust that the
Haridwar property was the property of the Trust and it was
not the property of the State Government, and therefore, it
was rightly sold by the Trust. It has been further stated that
scandalous stories were published in respect of sale of the
Trust property and Smt. Sumitra Mahajan, the then Member
of Parliament wrote a letter to the Chief Minister on
18.04.2012 raising the issue of sale of Haridwar property
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -9- and requested that the matter be investigated. 14. The Trust has further stated that on account of the
letter written by Smt. Sumitra Mahajan, the then Member of
Parliament, Indore, a chain of knee-jerk reactions were
followed at different level of the hierarchy in the State
Government and the letter was forwarded by the Principal
Secretary, Chief Minister Office on 08.05.2012 to the
Collector, Indore as well as to the Registrar, Public Trust,
Indore. The Registrar, Public Trust issued a notice to the
petitioners on 05.06.2012 and the Trust did submit a reply
on 20.05.2012 stating that the property in question is the
property of the Trust and not under the ownership of the
State Government, and therefore, there was no reason to
continue with the illegal and malafide inquiry into the issue
of sale. 15. It has further been contended by the Trust that the
Collector, Indore, thereafter, issued an order in respect of
the Trust properties dated 05.11.2012, wherein he has
directed the revenue authorities to mutate the name of State
Government in the revenue record and to inform all the
Collectors throughout the country to ensure that the Trust
property is not sold to private individuals or to any other
person. 16. The petitionerss / Trust has contended before the
learned Single Judge that the order passed by the Collector
suffers from malafide and was issued in colourable exercise
of power and is without jurisdiction. 17. It has further been stated by the Trust that another
order was passed on 05.12.2012 by the Registrar, Public
Trust and a prayer was made for quashment of both the
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -10- orders passed by the Collector as well as by the Registrar,
Public Trust. The petitioners / Trust has contended before
the learned Single Judge that grant of Rs.2,91,952/- was
inadequate to manage the Trust, and therefore, a necessity
arose for sale of Trust property and an action was initiated
against the Trust with an oblique and ulterior motive. 18. The petitioners / Trust has raised various grounds
before the learned Single Judge challenging illegality and
validity of orders dated 05.11.2012 passed by the
respondent No.2 / Collector in the writ petition and order
dated 05.11.2012 passed by the Registrar, Public Trust by
stating that the orders were illegal, arbitrary and
unconstitutional. It was also contended before the learned
Single Judge that the Collector does not have jurisdiction in
the matter to pass such an order and the Trust property was
sold for the benefit of the Trust. 19. Another ground was raised by the Trust stating that
the entire action was based upon the letter of Member of
Parliament with an oblique an ulterior motive and the
Collector, Indore is having no power in respect of property
situated in Haridwar. 20. Another ground taken by the Trust is that after the
establishment of petitioner / Trust in the year 1962, all the
Khasgi properties mentioned in schedule appended to the
trust deed vested in the Trust and they are not the properties
of the State Government, at no point of time, they became
the properties of Madhya Bharat, and therefore, the action
of the Collector was bad in law. 21. Another ground was raised before the learned
Single Judge stating that earlier in the year 1969, the State
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -11- Government has informed the Trust that the properties do
not belong to the State Government and the then Chief
Secretary has written a letter categorically to that effect, and
therefore, once the properties were not under the ownership
of the State Government, the Collector and the Registrar
could not have passed the impugned orders. 22. It has further been contended that the Collector has
ignored the vital fact about the membership of the nominees
of the State and Central Government in the Trust and the
property was sold by passing a resolution, hence, the orders
of the Collector and Registrar are bad in law. 23. It has further been stated in the writ petition that
there are as many as 246 charities of diverse nature
including temples and ghats and if the State Government
wants to takeover the control of such properties, it can only
be done by enacting an act by the competent legislature and
not by the order of Collector. It has been contended that the
order passed by the Collector and Register, Public Trust are
violative of principles of natural justice and fair play and at
the best, the Principal Secretary to the Hon'ble Chief
Minister could have directed an investigation in the matter
through the Divisional Commissioner, Indore. 24. Another ground has been raised before the learned
Single Judge stating that the Registrar, Public Trust has got
no authority in light of the covenant signed at the time of
merger to take any action against the Trust. 25. Another ground was raised in respect of jurisdiction
and the applicability of the M.P. Land Revenue Code, 1954
in the matter. In the writ petition, the petitioners / Trust has
prayed for quashment of order / note-sheet dated
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -12- 05.11.2012, order dated 30.11.2012 as being void, illegal
and opposite to law. 26. Appellant No.3 / Registrar has filed a caveat in the
matter raising preliminary objections and it has been stated
in the reply that as per the covenant executed between the
parties, a Trust was formed on the basis of claim made by
His Highness Maharaja Yashwant Rao Holkar of Indore
concerning Khasgi properties and covenant provides that
the Khasgi properties and income from Khasgi shall be
treated as lapsed for all time to the Madhya Bharat
Government. In lieu thereof several guarantees were given
subject to conditions. It was decided that the Madhya
Bharat Government shall in perpetuity set aside annually its
revenue. A sum of Rs.2,91,952/- being the amount provided
in the Holkar State Budget for the year 1947 - 48 for
charities and the amount shall be funded and put under a
permanent trust for the said charities including the charities
of her highness Maharani Ahilyabai Holkar. The power and
function of the Trust shall be subject to such legislation as
the Central Government or Madhya Bharat Government
may enact generally for the purposes of regulating such
Trust, except that the composition of Trust and the manner
of its formation, as stated above, shall not be liable to any
modification or change by such legislation. 27. It has further been stated that the Trust property
vested in the Madhya Bharat Government and the Trust was
formed only for maintenance of the properties and the Trust
is certainly governed under the provisions of M.P. Public
Trust Act, 1951. It has further been contended by the
Registrar that the Trust in its reply dated 20.06.2012 has
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -13- admitted the aforesaid situation. He has stated that on
10.08.1971 on an application of the Trust, the Trust was
categorically informed that the property in question is
owned and controlled by the State of Madhya Pradesh, and
therefore, exemption was provided only in respect of
registration of Trust. The Registrar has further contended
that the provisions of M.P. Public Trust Act, 1951 are very
much applicable to the Khasgi Trust and the State
Government has issued a letter to the Trust dated
17.04.1997 to take prior permission under Section 14 of the
M.P. Public Trust Act, 1951 for transfer of Trust property,
if any. 28. It has further been contended by the Registrar that
the representative of the State Government i.e. the
Commissioner, Indore has issued a letter dated 26.07.2000
to the Secretary of the Trust to take prior permission under
Section 14 of the M.P. Public Trust Act, 1951 in case of
transfer of Trust property, however, this letter has been
suppressed by the Trust while filing the writ petition. 29. The Registrar has further stated in its reply / caveat
that the petitioners / Trust is fully governed and controlled
by the State Authority and the State Authority has issued a
letter dated 15.05.2012 with a direction to Collector, Indore
to inquire the transfer of properties of the Trust, which are
vested in the State Government and the Collector has
initiated an inquiry through the Registrar, Public Trust after
granting an opportunity of hearing to the petitioners / Trust
in consonance with the provisions of M.P. Public Trust Act,
1951. 30. An Intervention Application was filed i.e. I.A.
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -14- No.5493/2012 by one Jagdeependra Singh Holkar and it has
been stated that the petition has been filed on the premises
that disputed properties (Trust properties) were the
properties of late Maharaja Yashwant Rao Holkar, who died
in 1961 and was recognized as Maharaja of the erstwhile
Holkar State and after the death of Maharaja Yashwant Rao
Holkar, his daughter Usha Devi has created the trust of the
properties. The intervenor has stated that as per the terms of
covenant entered into between late Yashwant Rao Holkar
and Union of India, Usha Devi could not have succeeded as
heir of Yashwant Rao Holkar as the Ruler. 31. It has been further stated that as per the terms of
covenant, if the Ruler dies without a sign, the rulership will
devolve as per the custom prevailing in the Holkar Dynasty
and the custom prevailing in the Holkar Dynasty provided
that after the death of Ruler, his nearest male heir will
succeed as a Ruler in absence of a sign. 32. The intervenor has further contended that at the time
of death of late Yashwant Rao Holkar, Malhar Rao Holkar,
father of the intervenor, was the nearest surviving male in
the family, he was cousin of Maharaja Yashwant Rao
Holkar, late Yashwant Rao Holkar had no brother living at
the time of his death except the father of the intervenor and
in those circumstances, a civil suit has been filed i.e. Civil
Suit No.15/1973 claiming declaration of title and possession
of property. It has been stated that after the death of Malhar
Rao Holkar, the intervenor, being his eldest son, has been
brought on record and the suit was dismissed by the trial
Court vide judgment and decree dated 21.04.2003. A first
appeal was also preferred i.e. F.A. No.264/2003, however,
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -15- it was dismissed as withdrawn, and thereafter, a SLP was
preferred i.e. S.L.P. No.205/2009 and the Hon'ble Supreme
Court has granted liberty to move a restoration application
and accordingly, a restoration application was filed i.e.
M.C.C. No.417/2011 and the same is still pending before
the High Court of Madhya Pradesh, Bench at Indore. The
intervenor has stated that he is also an interested party in the
matter and he should also be heard. 33. There was another Intervention Application i.e. I.A.
No.5552/2012 filed by Anshuman Rao Holkar and Gautam
Rao Holkar. They are also claiming themselves to be the
members of Holkar Dynasty. It has been stated by them that
intervenors are the actual legitimate owner of the property
in respect of which, the Collector, Indore has passed an
order, they are having right over the property and Smt. Usha
Devi Holkar has given false and fabricated assurance to the
intervenors and is disposing of the property of the Trust
illegally and arbitrarily that too without any authority to
dispose of such property. 34. A rejoinder has been filed to the reply filed by the
Registrar, Public Trust and it has been reiterated that the
orders have been passed by the Registrar and the Collector
without jurisdiction and it is a sheer abuse of process of
law. It has been stated in the rejoinder that the State
Government is not the owner of the property and the
property was rightly sold by the Trust. It has been stated
that the order passed by the Collector is a nullity and the
properties are not at all under the control of the State
Government. It has been stated that the orders have been
passed without jurisdiction and the dispute can be resolved
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -16- by approaching Civil Court. Reference to trust deed has also
been made in the rejoinder and in nutshell, great emphasis
has been laid upon the fact that the property does not belong
to the State Government and the Trust has every right to
dispose of the Trust property at their sweet will keeping in
view the terms and conditions of the trust deed and a prayer
was made for quashment of the orders passed by the
Collector and the Registrar. 35. Reply to Intervention Application has also been
filed denying the claim of intervenor in respect of property
in question. 36. The learned Single Judge, after hearing the parties
at length, has allowed the writ petition. Paragraphs - 24 to
32 of the order passed by the learned Single Judge reads as
under:- Thus, after reconstitution the Board of
Trustees subject to their acceptance shall be as
under:- majority shall be at liberty to appoint trustee in
case vacancy arises. Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -19- 8. The religious properties comprised in
the Khasgi Endowments shall never be sold. 9. If there is pressing need of selling or
leasing any part of the Khasgi Endowments
which is not being used or which is not
capable of being used for actual religious
purpose (hereinafter called "general
properties") it may be sold or leased only by a
unanimous resolution of the Trustees. The
procedure followed for the sale shall be
transparent and shall be laid down by a
resolution of the Trustees passed at a formal
meeting of the Trust at which the proposed
sale shall be a specific item of the agenda. 10. Maharani Usha Devi and Shri Satish
Chandra Malhotra have been providing
financial support to the Khasgi Trust in the
past. They are free and are requested to
continue to provide such financial support as
they wish, in future also. 11. Clause 10 of the Trust deed provides
that the Settlor in her capacity as president of
the Trust shall be entitled to appoint any
person as her duly constituted Attorney, to do
all acts, deeds and things of ministerial nature.
The Trustees may appoint a Secretary by a
special resolution and confer on him such
powers and authorities as the Trustees may
deem fit. 12. The State Government has so far
been providing a fixed sum of Rs.2,91,000/-
per year to the Khasgi Trust. This amount was
fixed on the basis of Budget of Holkar State of
the year 1947-48 for charities. This amount is
now no longer adequate. The State
Government shall henceforth shall make a
provision in the budget for Khasgi Trust which
should not be less then one crore every year
keeping in view the maintenance of valuable
properties of the trust and the fact that a sum
of Rs.2.91 lac was fixed in the year 1947-48.
This payment must be made well before 31st
March of every year. 13. Though the fixed
annuity of the State Government is only of
Rs.2,91,000/-, the State Government has
appointed a retired State Government Officer
on a monthly remuneration of Rs.30,000/-, that
is Rs.3,60,000/- per year, as Officer on Special
Duty. This remuneration is being paid from
funds of the Khasgi Trust. This payment by
the Khasgi Trust must be and is stopped by the
end of this year. This office of the Officer on
Special Duty and the payment may be
continued only if (a) the State Government
bears the financial burden and assigns specific
duties and responsibilities to the Officer on
Special Duty and (b) the trustees of Khasgi
Trust accept such an Officer on Special Duty. Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -20- 14. Since the issue has been raised by the
 Member of Parliament, a hope is expressed
 that she will provide at least Rs.5,00,000/- per
 year to the Khasgi Trust well before 31st March
 of every year from the funds of Member of
 Parliament. A copy of this order may be sent
 by the Registrar to her. 15. The revenue and municipal records
 regarding the Khasgi Endowments may be got
 corrected and entered in the name of the
 Khasgi Trust. 16. The Trustees may request
 the Indian Institute of Management, Indore to
 study the present system of management of the
 Khasgi Endowments and suggest
 improvements. 17. The earlier transactions of transfer by
 the Trust which were supported by
 proceedings of the trustees shall not be
 reopened. 18. Audit of the accounts of the Khasgi
 Trust shall be got done by the present auditors
 Messrs R.D. Joshi & Company. The State
 Government may get a second audit conducted
 by independent recognized chartered
 accountants but their fee and cost shall be
 borne by the State Government. 19. The meeting of the Trust shall be held
 on regular basis and at least once in three
 months. To give immediate effect, Collector,
 Indore is requested to hold the first meeting at
 his Office forthwith. So that reconstituted
 Board of Trustees of petitioners Trust become
 functional and consent can be obtained from
 the Trustees appointed under the orders of this
 Court. 29. For safety, preservation and management of
jewellery and ornaments in temples and other places
of the Khasgi Trust, the following directions are
given: These photographs may be signed by the
 person making the Panchnamas and the
 Panchas and put in sealed covers and the
 sealed covers may be similarly signed and
 dated. 12. This exercise shall be completed within
 three months. 30. Properties of Khasgi Trust are situated at a
large number of locations. Some of these properties
may be capable of yielding income or higher
income. The Trustees may carry out inspection of
the properties and make a report about better
exploitation of their potential for earning maximum
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -22- possible income. The trustees of the Khasgi Trust
 should thereafter take all possible steps for
 increasing income, without selling the properties. 31. So far as two impugned orders concerned,
 this Court finds are as under:- power in passing the impugned orders; (c) the impugned orders have been passed
 without compliance with principles of natural
 justice; (d) section 26 of the Madhya Pradesh
 Public Trusts Act contemplates a reference to
 the court in the event of a dispute requiring
 adjudication; (e) the impugned orders were never
 communicated to the petitionerss and the other
 trustees. 32. Since the impugned orders Annexure P/1 &
 P 23 are without jurisdiction, therefore, the same
 stand quashed. Petition stands allowed with the
 direction herein above. Parties are given liberty to
 seek directions of this court in case of need. Copy of
 the order be given to the parties for immediate
 compliance." The aforesaid judgment delivered by the learned
Single Judge is under challenge in the present writ appeal. 37. In the connected writ appeal i.e. W.A. No.135/2014,
the order dated 03.12.2013 passed in W.P. No.5372/2010 is
under challenge. The order dated 03.12.2013 reads as
under:- Both the writ appeals are connected writ appeals
arising out of same cause of action and in the Public Interest
Litigation Writ Petition also subject matter is same and a
prayer has been for conducting an investigation by the
Central Bureau of Investigation besides other reliefs. 38. Heard learned counsel for the parties at length and
perused the record. The appellant before this Court, the
State of Madhya Pradesh, is aggrieved by the order dated
28.11.2013 passed by the learned Single Judge in W.P.
No.11618/2012. 39. Shri P.K. Saxena, learned senior counsel along with
Shri Rishi Tiwari, advocate has argued before this Court
that the learned Single Judge has erred in law and facts in
setting aside the order dated 05.11.2012 passed by the
Collector as well as the order dated 30.11.2012 passed by
the Registrar, Public Trust on the ground that the principles
of natural justice and fair play were not followed. He has
also argued that the learned Single Judge has erred in law
and facts in holding that that the Khasgi properties were
private properties and the State Government did not lay its
claim even in the year 1949 when the letter dated
06.05.1949 was written settling the claim of Maharaja for
inclusion of Khasgi endowment in the inventories of private
of properties submitted in pursuance to Article 12 of the
Madhya Union Covenant wherein the Trust has
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -24- categorically stated that it was formed only to administer
the properties, which has already lapsed for all times in the
State Government (Madhya Bharat Government thereafter
the M.P. Government). He has further contended that
appointment of trustees by Maharaja do not in any way
change the nature of the right qua Khasgi properties. 40. Shri Saxena has also argued that the learned Single
Judge has erred in law and facts in wrongly holding that the
trustees were empowered for leasing or otherwise
transferring the title of the Trust properties. He has also
argued that the Writ Court has also taken into account the
letter dated 16.06.1969 and has wrongly held that the Trust
is having power to transfer the Trust properties. He has
further argued that the Writ Court has not considered the
reply of the State Government in respect of the aforesaid
aspect wherein it was categorically stated that the letter
dated 13.06.1969 was only a D.O. letter, which do not in
any way give recognition of the Government with respect to
the sale of the properties because the properties were under
the absolute ownership of the Government and a cabinet
decision was required for transferring the properties. 41. It has further been contended that Shri M.P.
Shrivastava was also a trustee, and therefore, such kind of
D.O. letter authorizing the sale of land by the Trust itself
was contrary to the various clauses of trust deed and was
having no legal sanctity. It has been contended that the
learned Single Judge has failed to consider that the Trust
was formed only for maintenance, upkeep and preservation
of the Trust properties more particularly, as described in
Part - B, the trustees were not entitled to sell the Trust
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -25- property not even by virtue of any resolution and the net
effect is that all deeds of transfer are void ab initio. 42. Another ground has been raised stating that the Writ
Court has miserably failed to consider that the Trust was
validly created, and therefore, founder as well as the
trustees were bound to act as per the intention of the Trust
and any deviation from the declared purpose of the Trust
amounted to breach of the Trust and it was an act of
treason, and therefore, the Collector was justified in taking
action in accordance with law in respect of sale of Trust
properties. 43. It has been further argued that the Writ Court has
failed to consider that the Covenant of 1948 and the
Instrument of 1949 and before formation of trust deed in the
year 1962, the M.P. Land Revenue Code, 1954 came into
force and as per Section 57 of the M.P. Land Revenue
Code, 1954, all the properties vested in the State
Government, and therefore, as per the covenant and the
M.P. Land Revenue Code, 1954, the properties were the
exclusive properties under the ownership of the State and
no sale of any kind could have taken place in the matter as
has been done by the Trust. Shri Saxena has further
contended that the learned Single Judge has failed to
consider that it is a settled principle of law that once the
trust is created with certain objects, no one has the power to
delete any of its objects. In the present the Supplementary
Deed of 1972 has the effect of deleting the main object of
the Trust, and therefore, the action of the learned Single
Judge in validating the sale, which took place in the matter,
is certainly bad law. Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -26- 44. It has been further contended that the learned Single
Judge has failed to see that the supplementary trust deed
had no sanctity in the eyes of law. The trust deed was not
permitted by any Civil Court, and therefore, as in the
original trust deed there was no power of sale, by taking
shelter of the supplementary trust deed, sale could not be
effected specially in light of the fact that the property in
question was the property under the exclusive ownership of
the State of Madhya Pradesh. It has been contended that the
Supplementary Trust Deed of 1972 is in fact not a
supplementary trust deed because it changes the basic
nature of the original deed of 1962, and therefore, the
supplementary deed was invalid having no legal sanctity
nor any legal character in the eyes of law. 45. It has been further argued that the trustees could not
have sold the property of the Trust keeping in view Section
47 of the Indian Trust Act, 1882. In the Trust Deed of 1962
or the Amendment of 1972 does not provide for delegation
of power and in the present case, the power was delegated
to a stranger to dispose of the property of the Trust and the
learned Single Judge has erred in law and facts in allowing
the writ petition by quashing the order the passed by the
Collector. It has been contended that the Khasgi
endowments are of religious nature and are heritage
properties, and therefore, the State Government has every
right and power to interfere with the sale transactions as the
trustees were not acting as per the duties so bestowed upon
them and as per the Trust Deed of 1962. 46. It has been further contended by Shri Saxena that the
findings arrived at by the learned Single Judge in paragraph
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -27- - 25 are perverse and they are beyond the jurisdiction of the
Writ Court, and therefore, deserves to be set aside. He has
further argued that the learned Single Judge has given a
finding that Khasgi Trust shall continue to manage Khasgi
endowments. He has stated that the same was not the
subject matter of the dispute, the dispute was that certain
heritage properties were being sold away in shady and
unlawful manner and a third party right was being created
and in those circumstances, the Collector came into picture
and has directed that the name of the State Government be
written in the Bhumiswami column of the revenue record
with a clear endowment of non-transferable, and therefore,
the learned Single Judge has erred in law and in facts in fact
drafting a trust deed which not the prayer made in the
original writ petition. He has further argued that the learned
Single Judge was jurisdictionally incompetent to draft a
trust deed and to constitute Board of Trustees. He has
argued that keeping in view the power of the Registrar, as
per Section 25 of the M.P. Public Trust Act, 1951 by no
stretch of imagination, a trust deed can be drafted by a Writ
Court in exercise of writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of
the Constitution of India. 47. It has also been argued that the learned Single has
failed to take notice of the fact that earlier also the Trust has
applied for grant of permission under Section 14 of the
M.P. Public Trust Act, 1951 for sale of properties and the
permission was rejected vide order dated 14.12.2005. The
order dated 14.12.2005 was not challenged before any
forum which impliedly means that the Trust has accepted
that the provisions of M.P. Public Trust Act, 1951 are
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -28- applicable and in those circumstances, the transactions
made by the Trust in respect of the heritage properties were
certainly bad in law. The learned Single Judge has ignored
this vital aspect of the case. Learned senior counsel has
argued that the Writ Court has erred in law and facts in
holding that there was adequate administrative set up in the
Trust and on the basis certain reports, which were filed
before the learned Single Judge without there being
pleadings in support of the same or the amendment to writ
petition, the reports prepared by the petitioner were
believed, and therefore, the learned Single Judge has erred
in law and facts in delivering the judgment contrary to the
pleadings. 48. It has been further contended that the learned Single
Judge has taken into account the documents filed along
with the list of the documents showing the expenditure and
income of the Trust. It has been stated that the documents
were being scrutinized by the Registrar, Public Trust which
were prepared by private auditor and without waiting for
the proceedings to be completed before the Registrar, the
documents prepared unilaterally by the Trust were accepted
by the learned Single Judge, hence, the judgment delivered
by the learned Single Judge is bad in law and deserves to be
set aside. It has been argued that the learned Single Judge
has given a finding that the State Government cannot and
should not undertake the task of management and the
manner of the formation of the Trust and the Trust shall not
be liable for any modification and change by any legislation
so made by the Central Government or the State
Government. He has stated that the learned Single Judge
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -29- himself has constituted a fresh trust deed by incorporating
several clauses which was beyond the scope and
jurisdiction conferred upon the Court by virtue of Article
226 of the Constitution of India. It has been stated that the
direction of the learned Single Judge that the State
Government shall not claim ownership of Khasgi
endowment is also bad in law because it is the State of
Madhya Pradesh which having title of the property in
question. The Khasgi properties had lapsed for all time in
the State Government (United State of Madhya Bharat)
thereafter, in the Madhya Pradesh with the signing of the
covenant in the year 1948 itself and till creation of the Trust
in the year 1962, the same was managed by the Religious
Endowment Department of the Government. It has been
stated that the Trust was formed with the purpose to
maintain, upkeep and preservation of the Khasgi
endowment. The trust deed also made it very clear that
endowment in the Trust Deed of the year 1962 was very
clear on the subject that the Trust Could not have sold the
properties by subsequent resolution / subsequent
amendment. 49. It has further been argued that the Writ Court has
failed to consider that only the Civil Court has power to
direct changes in the trust deed in the spirit of Doctrine of
Cy près, which implies that the original intents of the
founder should not fail. It has been contended that the
directions given by the learned Single Judge for
appointment of various persons as trustees is bad in law and
is beyond the jurisdiction so vested under Article 226 of the
Constitution of India as it has virtually changed the nature
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -30- of the trust deed. It has been argued that the directions with
respect to sale of property or leasing out any part of the
Khasgi endowment by way unanimous resolution in bad in
law because it runs counter to the very moto for which the
Trust was formed i.e., to upkeep, preserve and maintain the
Khasgi endowment.. 50. It has further been argued that the direction given by
the learned Single Judge to appoint a Secretary and to
confer power upon him and the authority, as deems fit, also
runs counter to the trust deed particularly Clause - 10 of the
trust deed. Clause - 10 of the Trust Deed provides that it is
the Settlor who has to appoint any person as the duly
constituted attorney to do ministerial act, there is no
provision in the trust deed for appointment of any
Secretary, and therefore, such a direction given by the
learned Single Judge is bad in law. 51. It has further been contended that it is the cardinal
principle of law that original registered trust deed cannot be
washed of by subsequent change in the trust deed which
was not intended in the original trust deed. It has been
aruged that the directions given by the learned Single Judge
to the State of Madhya Pradesh for making a provision of
rupees one crore for maintenance of the properties of the
Trust is bad in law as the same runs counter to the trust
deed and the learned Single Judge was not having
jurisdiction to pass such an order which runs counter and
disturbs the very essence of the trust deed. It in fact
amounts to unwarranted exercise of power conferred under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. 52. Shri Saxena has also argued before this Court that a
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -31- letter was written by Smt. Sumitra Mahajan, Ex Member of
Parliament, to the Chief Minister of the State of Madhya
Pradesh informing him about the sale of the Trust
properties and the office of the Chief Minister has directed
the Commissioner, Indore and the Collector, Indore to take
action in accordance with law. He has argued that Smt.
Sumitra Mahajan was not the party to the writ petition and
the learned Single Judge has directed the Member of
Parliament to pay a sum of Rs.5,00,000/- per year to the
Trust before 31st March every year from the funds of the
Member of the Prliament. Such a direction passed against a
person without making him party to the lis is certainly bad
in law. 53. It has further been argued that the direction given by
the learned Single Judge that the name of Khasgi
endowment be recorded in the revenue and municipal
record is bad in law as the same could not have been done
without there being a judgment and decree from any Civil
Court. The Trust is certainly not the titleholder of the
properties and it is the State of Madhya Pradesh which is
having title of the properties, and therefore, the direction
given by the learned Single Judge is absolutely against all
canons of law. 54. It has also been argued that direction given by the
learned Single Judge for non-opening of all earlier
transaction of sale made by the Trust is bad in law because
by giving the aforesaid direction all illegal proceedings
which were undertaken by the trustees and the various
officers acting on behalf of the Trust have been legalized. It
has been contended that such a direction is bad in law as it
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -32- completely overlooks the proceedings which were pending
before the Registrar regarding the transactions made by the
representatives of the Trust. It has been stated that such a
finding, being beyond the record, is bad in law and deserves
to be set aside. 55. Shri Saxena has also argued before this Court that the
direction of the learned Single Judge that the audit of the
account of the Trust shall be done by the auditor of the
Trust is bad in law. He has stated that the Writ Court has
completely overlooked the fact that the audit of the account
was already being carried out by the Joint Director, Tresury
and Account Office, and therefore, issuing a direction for
carrying out audit by private auditor is bad in law and such
an arbitrary order deserves to be set aside by this Court. 56. It has been argued that the learned Single Judge has
given a direction regarding preservation and management of
jewellery of the temple of the Khasgi Trust and such
direction indicates that the learned Single Judge did not
appreciate the real controversy which was before him. The
real controversy was that the Trust is on a selling spree and
is selling out Trust properties. He has argued that directions
given in paragraph - 29 are perverse and are in exercise of
such jurisdiction which was not the subject matter of lis
before this Court. 57. Another ground has been raised by the State of
Madhya Pradesh stating that the findings of the learned
Single Judge that the Collector and Registrar do not have
any judicial power or power so as to pass the impugned
orders is bad in law because the order was passed by the
Collector as Head of the District Administration and the
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -33- Registrar has passed the order as competent authority under
the M.P. Public Trust Act, 1951. The orders were passed
after following the principles of natural justice and fair
play. The order were in consonance with the statutory
provisions and they were as measure to protect the
properties from being alienated. He has also argued that the
learned Single Judge ought to have held that the Trust and
the trustees were responsible towards the State Government
to explain the deeds and action undertaken by the trustees
and were duty bound to participate in co-operating with the
inquiry which was being held in the matter, however, on the
contrary, the Writ Court has passed an order treating the
orders passed by the Collector and Registrar as final orders,
and therefore, the order passed by the learned Single Judge
deserves to be set aside. 58. It has also been argued that in light of various
directions given by the learned Single Judge, it appears that
the learned Single Judge usurped the power and jurisdiction
not vested in him and has acted as a Registrar as provided
under Section 25 of the M.P. Public Trust Act, 1951 and
also the jurisdiction of the Civil Court, as provided under
Section 27 of the M.P. Public Trust Act, 1951. Shri Saxena
has argued that the Trust property was sold by the trustees
for peanuts, for personal gains by playing a fraud and the
matter deserves a probe by Economic Offences Wing by
registering a First Information Report. He has also argued
that a committee should be constituted for the purposes of
conducting an inquiry into the affairs of the Trust under the
Chairmanship of the Chief Secretary and it is bounden duty
of this Court to save the historical monuments like temple,
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -34- ghats and other properties which are under the absolute
ownership of the State of Madhya Pradesh. 59. Shri Saxena has placed reliance upon a judgment
delivered in the case of The State of Madhya Pradesh v/s
Maharani Usha Devi reported in (2015) 8 SCC 672. Heavy
reliance has been placed upon paragraphs - 27, 29 and 31.
He has argued before this Court that property in question,
prior to the covenant, was under the ownership of the Ruler
but once a covenant is entered into, the Government has
taken over all the properties except those which the
Government recognizes as the private properties of the
Ruler. In case of properties under the Khasgi Trust, the
State of Madhya Pradesh, being the successor State, is the
titleholder of the properties and in light of judgment
delivered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court, the learned Single
Judge was not having power to decide the writ petition
keeping in view the specific bar as provided under Article
363 of the Constitution of India. 60. He has also placed reliance upon a judgment
delivered in the case of Draupadi Devi & Others v/s Union
of India & Others reported in (2004) 11 SCC 425.
Paragraph - 43 and 44 of the aforesaid judgment read as
under:- Promod Chandra Deb and Others v. The State of Orissa
 and Others and The State of Saurashtra v. Jamadar
 Mohamad Abdulla and Others (supra). 44. Applying the law as laid down in Vora Fiddali
 (supra) it appears to us that the contention of the State
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -35- of Punjab and the Union of India must be upheld. The
Maharaja of Kapurthala was an independent sovereign
Ruler. To merge or not to merge with the Dominion
of India was a political decision taken by him and the
instrument of accession dated 16.8.1947 was, without
doubt, an act of State. So was the covenant dated
5.5.1948. By the covenant all rights, authority and
jurisdiction of the erstwhile Rulers were vested in the
Patiala and East Punjab States Union and all assets
and liabilities of the covenanting States became the
assets and liabilities of the Union, PEPSU. It is only
Article XII which ensured certain rights to the Ruler
with regard to full ownership, use and enjoyment of
all private properties (as distinct from State
properties) belonging to him on the date of his making
over the administration of the State to the Raj
Pramukh. Consequently, he was also required to
furnish to the Raj Pramukh, before the deadline, an
inventory of all the immovable properties, securities
and cash balances held by him as such private
property. This was obviously done so that the
Government of India could ascertain the correctness
of the claim. No doubt, clause (3) of Article XII
provides that a dispute arising as to whether any item
of property was the private property of the Ruler or
State property was referable to a nominee of the
Government of India and such nominee's decision
would be final and binding on all the parties
concerned, provided that such dispute was to be
referred by the deadline of 31.12.1948. Interpreting
this clause, the learned Single Judge took the view
that under the treaty the Government of India could
not unilaterally refuse to recognise any property as
private property of the Ruler, and, if it did, it was
obliged to refer it to the person contemplated by
clause (3). Failure to do so would imply recognition
of the claim as to private property. In our view, this
reasoning of the learned Single Judge was erroneous
on two counts. In the first place, this interpretation
ignores the true nature of the covenant. The covenant
is a political document resulting from an act of State.
Once the Government of India decides to take over all
the properties of the Ruler, except the properties
which it recognises as private properties, there is no
question of implied recognition of any property as
private property. On the other hand, this clause of the
covenant merely means that, if the Ruler of the
covenanting State claimed property to be his private
property and the Government of India did not agree, it
was open to the Ruler to have this issue decided in the
manner contemplated by clause (3). Clause (3) of
Article XII does not mean that the Government was
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -36- obliged to refer to the dispute upon its failure to
 recognise it as private property. Secondly, the dispute
 as to whether a particular property was or was not
 recognised as private property of the Ruler was itself
 a dispute arising out of the terms of the covenant and,
 therefore, not adjudicable by municipal courts as
 being beyond the jurisdiction of the municipal courts
 by reason of Article 363 of the Constitution of India. " 31. A similar view has been re-iterated by this
 Court in Krishna Priya Ganguly etc.etc. Vs.
 University of Lucknow & Ors. etc. AIR 1984 SC 186;
 and Om Prakash & Ors. Vs. Ram Kumar & Ors. , AIR
 1991 SC 409, observing that a party cannot be granted
 a relief which is not claimed. 32. Dealing with the same issue, this Court in Bharat Amratlal Kothari Vs. Dosukhan Samadkhan
 Sindhi & Ors. , AIR 2010 SC 475 held: 33. In Fertilizer Corporation of India Ltd. & Anr.
 Vs. Sarat Chandra Rath & Ors. , AIR 1996 SC 2744,
 this Court held that "the High Court ought not to have
 granted reliefs to the respondents which they had not
 even prayed for." 34. In view of the above, law on the issue can be
 summarised that the Court cannot grant a relief which
 has not been specifically prayed by the parties. The
 instant case requires to be examined in the light of the
 aforesaid certain legal propositions."
 The contention of learned senior counsel is that the
learned Single Judge has granted relief, which was not
prayed for and by no stretch of imagination, a relief could
have been granted to a party without a prayer that too
without proper pleadings. He has argued that the learned
Single Judge has granted various reliefs which were never
prayed for, the learned Single Judge has drafted a fresh trust
deed which was not the matter of dispute, and therefore, the
order passed by the learned Single Judge deserves to be set
aside. 62. Reliance has also been placed upon a judgment
delivered in the case of Janardha Reddy & Others v/s The
State of Hyderabad & Others reported in AIR (38) 1951
SC 217. Paragraph - 26 of the aforesaid judgment reads as
under:- 63. Reliance has also been placed upon a judgment
delivered in the case of Puran Singh & Others v/s State of
Punjab & Others reported in (1996) 2 SCC 205.
Paragraphs - 5, 6, 10, 11 and 12 read as under:- The explanation which was added by the
 aforesaid Amending Act said: There was controversy between different courts as
 to whether the different provisions of the Code shall be
 applicable even to writ proceedings under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution. Some High Courts held that writ
 proceedings before the High Court shall be deemed to be
 proceedings "in any court of civil jurisdiction" within the
 meaning of Section 141 of the Code. ( Ibrahimbhai v.
 State , AIR 1968 Gujarat 202; Panchayat Officer v. Jai
 Narain , AIR 1967 All. 334; Krishanlal Sadhu v. State , AIR
 1967 Cal. 275; Sona Ram Ranga Ram v. Central
 Government , AIR 1963 Punjab 510; A. Adinarayana v.
 State of Andhra Pradesh , AIR 1958 Andhra Pradesh 16).
 However, in another set of cases, it was held that writ
 proceeding being a proceeding of a special nature and not
 one being in a court of civil jurisdiction Section 141 of the
 Code was not applicable. ( Bhagwan Singh v. Additional
 Director Consolidation , AIR 1968 Punjab 360; Chandmal
 v. State , AIR 1968 Rajasthan 20; K.B.Mfg.Co. v. Sales
 Tax Commissioner , AIR 1965 All. 517; Ramchand v.
 Anandlal , AIR 1962 Gujarat 21; Messers Bharat Board
 Mills v. Regional Provident Fund Commissioner and
 Others , AIR 1957 Cal. 702). 06. Even before the introduction of the explanation to
 Section 141 of the Code, this Court had occasion to
 examine the scope of the said Section in the case of
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -39- Babubhai Muljibhai Patel v. Nandlal Khodidas Barot and
others , AIR 1974 SC 2105 = (1975)2 SCR 71. It was said: It can be said that in the judgment aforesaid,
this Court expressed the view that merely on basis of
Section 141 of the code it was not necessary to adhere
to the procedure of a quit in writ petitions, because in
many cases the sole object of writ jurisdiction to
provide quick and inexpensive remedy to the person
who invokes which jurisdiction is likely to be
defeated. A Constitution Bench of this Court in the
case of State of U.P. vs. Vijay Anand , AIR SC 1963 946
said as follows:- 10. On a plain reading, Section 141 of the Code
provides that the procedure provided in the said Code
in regard to suits shall be followed "as far as it can be
made applicable, in all proceedings". In other words,
it is open to make the procedure provided in the said
Code in regard to suits applicable to any other
proceeding in any court of civil jurisdiction. The
explanation which was added is more or less in the
nature of proviso, saying that the expression
"proceedings" shall not include any proceeding under Article 226 of the Constitution. The necessary
corollary thereof shall be that it shall be open to make
applicable the procedure provided in the Code to any
proceeding in any court of civil jurisdiction except to
proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution.
Once the proceeding under Article 226 of the
Constitution has been excluded from the expression
"proceedings" occurring in Section 141 of the Code
by the explanation, how on basis of Section 141 of the
Code any procedure provided in the Code can be
made applicable to a proceeding under Article 226 of
the Constitution? In this background, how merely on
basis of Writ Rule 32 the provisions of the Code shall
be applicable to writ proceedings? Apart from that,
Section 141 of the Code even in respect of other
proceedings contemplates that the procedure provided
in the Code in regard to suits shall be followed "as far
as it can be made applicable". Rule 32 of Writ Rules
does not specifically make provisions of Code
applicable to petitions under Articles 226 and 227 of
the Constitution. It simply says that in matters for
which no provision has been made by those rules, the
provisions of the Code shall apply mutatis mutandis in
so far as they are not inconsistent with those rules. In
the case of Rokyaybi v. Ismail Khan, AIR 1984
Karnataka 234 in view of Rule 39 of the Writ
Proceedings Rules as framed by the Karnataka High
Court making the provisions of Code of Civil
Procedure applicable to writ proceedings and writ
appeals, it was held that the provisions of the Code
were applicable to writ proceedings and writ appeals. 11. We have not been able to appreciate the
anxiety on the part of the different courts in
judgments referred to above to apply the provisions of
the Code to Writ Proceedings on the basis of Section
141 of the Code. When the constitution has vested
extraordinary power in the High Court under Articles
226 and 227 to issue any order, writ or direction and
the power of superintendence over all courts and
tribunals throughout the territories in relation to which
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -41- such High Court is exercising jurisdiction, the
procedure for exercising such power and jurisdiction
have to be traced and found in Articles 226 and 227 itself. No useful purpose will be served by limiting the
power of the High Court by procedural provisions
prescribed in the Code. of course, on many questions,
the provisions and procedures prescribed under the
Code can be taken up as guide while exercising the
power, for granting relief to persons, who have
invoked the jurisdiction of the High Court. It need not
be impressed that different provisions and procedures
under the Code are based on well recognised
principles for exercise of discretionary power, and
they are reasonable and rational. But at the same time,
it cannot be disputed that many procedures prescribed
in the said Code are responsible for delaying the
delivery of justice and causing delay in securing the
remedy available to a person who pursues such
remedies. The High Court should be left to adopt its
own procedure for granting relief to the persons
concerned. The High Court is expected to adopt a
procedure which can be held to be not only reasonable
but also expeditious. 12. As such even if it is held that Order 22 of the
Code is not applicable to writ proceedings or writ
appeals, it does not mean that the petitioner or the
appellant in such writ petition or writ appeal can
ignore the death of the respondent if the right to
pursue remedy even after death of the respondent
survives. After the death of the respondent it is
incumbent on the part of the petitioner or the
appellant to substitute the heirs of such respondent
within a reasonable time. For purpose of holding as to
what shall be a reasonable time, the High Court may
take note of the period prescribed under Article 120 of
the Limitation Act for substituting the heirs of the
deceased defendant or the respondent. However, there
is no question of automatic abatement of the writ
proceedings. Even if an application is filed beyond 90
days of the death of such respondent, the Court can
take into consideration the facts and circumstances of
a particular case for purpose of condoning the delay in
filing the application for substitution of the legal
representative. This power has to be exercised on well
known and settled principles in respect of exercise of
discretionary power by the High Court. If the High
Court is satisfied that delay, if any, in substituting the
heirs of the deceased respondent was not intentional,
and sufficient cause has been shown for not taking the
steps earlier, the High Court can substitute the legal
representative and proceed with the hearing of the
writ petition or the writ appeal, as the case may be. At
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -42- the same time the High Court has to be conscious that
 after lapse of time a valuable right accrues to the legal
 representative of the deceased respondent and he
 should not be compelled to contest a claim which due
 to the inaction of the petitioner or the appellant has
 become final." Learned senior counsel has argued that the learned
Single Judge has exercised jurisdiction in the matter as if he
was acting as a Civil Court and deciding a title suit. He has
stated that under Article 226 of the Constitution of India
while dealing with the writ petition, the Code of Civil
Procedure is not applicable for deciding a title, and
therefore, the judgment delivered by the learned Single
Judge deserves to be set aside. 64. Reliance has also been placed upon a judgment
delivered in the case of State of Uttar Pradesh & Others
v/s Dr. Vijay Anand Maharaj reported in AIR 1963 SC 946. Paragraphs - 8 and 9 of the aforesaid judgment reads
as under:- We have already extracted the provisions of a. 11. Section 11 is in two parts: the first part of the section
 confers a right on a party to the proceedings under the
 Principal Act to apply to the court or authority for a
 review of the proceeding in the light of the provisions
 of the Act within 90 days from the commencement of
 the Act, and the second part issues a statutory
 injunction on such a court or authority to review the
 proceedings accordingly and to make an order as may
 be necessary to give effect to the provisions of the
 Principal Act, as amended by ss.2 and 4 of the Act.
 The first question, therefore, is whether the order of
 Mehrotra, J., in an application under Art. 226 of the
 Constitution was in any proceeding under the
 Principal Act. Obviously a petition under Art. 226 of
 the Constitution cannot be a proceeding under the
 Act: it is a proceeding under the Constitution. But it is
 said, relying upon certain passages in Maxwell on the
 Interpretation of Statutes, at p, 68, and in Crawford on
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -43- "Statutory Construction' at p. 492, that it is the duty of
the Judge "to make such construction of a statute as
shall suppress the mischief and advance the remedy," Crawford says that a liberal construction does
not justify an extension of the statute's scope beyond
the contemplation of the Legislature. The fundamental
and elementary rule of construction is that the words
and phrases used by the Legislature shall be given
their ordinary meaning and shall be constructed
according to the rules of grammar. When the language
is plain and unambiguous and admits of only one
meaning, no question of construction of a statute
arises, for the Act speaks for itself. It is a well
recognized rule of construction that the meaning must
be collected from the expressed intention of the
Legislature. So construed, there cannot be two
possible views on the interpretation of the first part of
the section. Learned counsel suggested that we should
read the relevant portion of the first part thus: "in any
proceedings to set aside any assessment made on the
basis of the Principal Act". To accept this argument is
to rewrite the section. While the section says that the
order sought to be reviewed is that made in a
proceeding under the Principal Act, the argument
seeks to remove the qualification attached to the
proceeding and add the same to the assessment. The
alternative argument, namely, that without changing
the position of the words as they stand in the section,
the expression ,on the basis of" may be substituted for
the expression "under" does Dot also yield the results
expected by the learned counsel. It cannot be held
with any justification, without doing violence to the
language used, that a proceeding under Art. 226 of the
Constitution is either one under the Principal Act or
on the basis of the Principal Act, for it is a proceeding
under Art. 226 of the Constitution to quash the order
on the ground that it was made in violation of the Act.
An attempt is then made to contend that a proceeding
under Art. 226 of the Constitution is a continuation of
the proceedings before the Additional Collector and,
therefore, the said proceedi- ings are proceedings
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -44- under the Act. This leads us to the consideration of
the question of the scope of the proceedings under Art.
226 of the Constitution. 09. Article 226 confers a power on a High Court to
issue the writs, orders, or directions mentioned therein
for the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by
Part III or for any other purpose. This is neither an
appellate nor a revisional jurisdiction of the High
Court. Though the power is not confined to the
prerogative writs issued by the English Courts, it is
modeled on the said writs mainly to enable the High
Courts to keep the subordinate tribunals within
bounds. Before the Constitution, the chartered High
Court, that is, the High Courts at Bombay, Calcutta
and Mad- ras, were issuing prerogative writs similar
to those issued by the King's Bench Division, subject
to the same limitations imposed on the said. writs. In Venkataratnam v. Secretary of State for India(1), (1)
(1930) I.L.P.. 53 Mad. 979. A division Bench of the
Madras High Court, consisting of Venkatasubba Rao
and Madhavan Nair, JJ,; held that the jurisdiction to
issue a writ of certiorari was original jurisdiction. In Ryots of Garabandha v. The Zamindar of Parlakimedi (1),
another division Bench of the same High Court,
consisting of Leach, C. J., and Madhavan Nair J.,
considered the question again incidentally and came
to the same conclusion "and held that a writ of
certiorari is issued only in exercise of the original
jurisdiction of the High Court. In Ramayya v. State of
Madras (2), a division Bench, consisting of Govinda
Menon and Ramaswami Oounder, JJ,, considered the
question whether the proceedings under Art. 226 of the
Constitution are in exercise of the original Jurisdiction
or revisional jurisdiction of the High Court, and the
learned Judges held that the power to issue writs
under Art. 226 of the Constitution is original and the
jurisdiction exercised is original jurisdiction. In Moulvi Hamid Hassan Nomani v. Banwarilal Boy (3),
the Privy Council was considering the question
whether the original civil jurisdiction which the
Supreme Court of Calcutta possessed over certain
classes of persons outside the territorial limits of that
jurisdiction has been inherited by the High Court. In
that context the Judicial Committee. observed. The Calcutta. High Court, in Budge Budge
Municipality v. Mangru(4) came to the same
conclusion, namely, that the jurisdiction exercised
under Art. 226 of the Constitution is original as
distinguished from appellate or revisional jurisdiction; Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -45- but the High Court pointed out that the jurisdiction,
 though original, is a special jurisdiction and should
 not be confused with ordinary civil jurisdiction under
 the Letters Patent. The Andhra High Court in
 Satyanarayanamurthi v. 1. T. Appellate Tribunal (1)
 described it as an extraordinary original jurisdiction. It
 is, therefore, clear from the nature of the power
 conferred under Art. 226 of the Constitution and the
 decisions on the subject that the High Court in
 exercise of its power under Art. 226 of the
 Constitution exercises original jurisdiction, though the
 said jurisdiction shall not be confused with the
 ordinary civil jurisdiction of the High Court. This
 jurisdiction, though original in character as contrasted
 with its appellate and revisional jurisdictions, is
 exercisable throughout the territories in relation to
 which it exercises jurisdiction and may. for
 convenience, be described as extraordinary original
 jurisdiction. If that be so, it cannot be contended that a
 petition under Art. 226 of the Constitution is a
 continuation of the proceedings under the Act.
 Taking shelter of the aforesaid judgment, he has
argued before this Court that the High Court does not have
any power to decide a civil suit as it was not exercising
original writ jurisdiction to deal with a civil case, and
therefore, the learned Single Judge has erred in law and
facts in holding that the Trust is the titleholder of the
property. Shri Saxena has prayed for dismissal of the writ
petition. He has further prayed that the writ appeals be
allowed and the cost be imposed upon the Trust. 65. In the present case, Shri A.K. Chitle, learned senior
counsel along with Shri Kartik Chitle, Shri A.S. Garg,
learned senior counsel along with Ms. Poorva Mahajan,
Shri S.C. Bagadia, learned senior counsel along with Shri
Vivek Patwa and Shri Rohit Saboo, Shri Shekhar Bhargava,
learned senior counsel along with Ms. Anika Bajpai, Shri
V.K. Jain, learned senior counsel along with Shri Vaibhav
Jain, Shri Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel along with
Shri Abhinav Malhotra , Shri Shyam Diwan, learned senior
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -46- counsel along with Shri Abhinav Malhotra and Ms.
Sugnadha Yadav and Shri Manoj Manav, learned counsel
for the Union of India have appeared in the matter and have
argued the matter at length. Intervenors have also been represented by Shri
Sameer Saxena and Shri Ashish Joshi. 66. Shri Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel and Shri
Shyam Diwan, learned senior counsel have vehemently
argued before this Court that the Collector, Indore was
having no jurisdiction to pass the order dated 05.11.2012
and the Registrar, Public Trust was also jurisdictionaly
incompetent to pass the order dated 30.11.2012. 67. Reliance have been placed upon several judgments
delivered in the cases of T.C. Basappa v/s T. Nagappa reported in AIR 1954 SC 440, Hari Vishnu Kamath v/s
Syed Ahmad Ishaque reported in AIR 1955 SC 233, Syed
Yakoob v/s K.S. Radhakrishnan reported in AIR 1964 SC
477, Vimla Ben Ajit Bhai Patel v/s Vatslaben Patel
reported in (2008) 4 SCC 649 and Jilubhai Khachar v/s
The State of Gujrat reported in (1995) Supp. (1) SCC 596. 68. Learned counsel for the respondents in the writ appeal
have also argued before this Court that by orders dated
05.11.2012 and 30.11.2012, the Collector and Registrar of
the State of Madhya Pradesh have held that the property in
question is under the ownership of the State of Madhya
Pradesh and the Collector has decided the issue of title
without granted opportunity of hearing to the Trust and
trustees. Reliance has been placed upon judgments
delivered in the cases of A.K. Kraipak v/s Union of India reported in (1969) 2 SCC 262, S.L. Kapoor v/s Jagmohan
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -47- reported in ( 1980) 4 SCC 379, Sahara India (Firm) (1) v/s
CIT reported in ( 2008) 14 SCC 151 and Kanachur Islamic
Education Trust v/s Union of India reported in (2017) 15
SCC 702. 69. It has also been argued that the letter of the Chief
Secretary is the decision of the State Government, and
therefore, keeping in view the letter dated 13.06.1969, the
State is estopped by its deed and conduct in disapproving
the sale which took place in the matter. Reliance has also
been placed upon judgments delivered in the cases of Motilal Padampat v/s The State of UP reported in ( 1979) 2
SCC 409, Union of India v/s Godfrey Philips reported in
( 1985) 4 SCC 369 and State of Bihar v/s Sunny Prakash reported in (2013) 3 SCC 559. 70. It has also been argued that Article 363 of the
Constitution of India has no applicability in the present case
and reliance has been placed upon judgments delivered in
the cases of Madhav Rao Jivaji Rao Scindia v/s Union of
India reported in ( 1971) 1 SCC 85 and State of M.P. v/s
Usha Devi reported in (2015) 8 SCC 672. 71. It has also been argued before this Court that the
Registrar, Public Trust and the Collector were not
competent to decide the question of title keeping view the
M.P. Public Trust, 1951 and no jurisdiction vested in the
Registrar to decide the ownership of immovable properties,
and therefore, findings given by the learned Single Judge in
paragraph - 31 are correct. Reliance has also been placed
upon judgments delivered in the cases of State of
Maharashtra v/s Chanderkant reported in (1977) 1 SCC
257, Seth Chand Ratan v/s Pandit Durga Prasad reported
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -48- in (2003) 5 SCC 399, Shri Ram Mandir Trust v/s State of
M.P. reported in (2011) SCC OnLine MP 275, State of
Gujrat v/s Patil Raghav reported in (1969) 2 SCC 187 and
Rohini Prasad v/s Kasturchand reported in (2000) 3 SCC 668. 72. It has also been argued before this Court that Union
of India is a necessary party and it should also be heard in
the matter. 73. Reference has also been made to the White Paper on
Indian States published by the Government of India,
Ministry of States and it has been argued that the property
in question is a Trust's property and it is not the property of
the State Government. 74. Reference has also been made to the book written by
Shri V.P. Menon titled as 'The Story of Integration of the
Indian States' published in 1956 First Edition, Chapter - 11
and the judgment delivered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court
in the case of Marthanda Varma v/s The State of Kerela
reported in 2020 SCC OnLine 569. 75. Lastly, it has been argued that power to manage
Trust's properties inherently includes the power to sale and
the trustees are entitled to sell the properties for the
objective of the Trust. Reliance has been placed upon a
judgment delivered in the case of Chairman Madappa v/s
M.N. Mahantha Devaru reported in AIR 1966 SC 878. 76. Lastly, it was argued that Maharani Usha Devi and
her husband Shri S.C. Malhotra are respectable citizen and
they have contributed a lot towards public, social and
charitable causes in the township of Indore, they have
donated huge amount from time to time to Khasgi Trust,
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -49- and therefore, the learned Single Judge was justified in
quashing the orders passed by the Collector and Registrar,
Public Trust. 77. It has been vehemently argued that the Chief
Secretary of the State of Madhya Pradesh has written a
letter dated 13.06.1969 permitting the Trust to go ahead
with the sale of the property, and therefore, the State
Government is estopped from taking a contrary stand in the
matter that there was no permission of the State in respect
of sale of the property. 78. It has been vehemently argued by Shri Kapil Sibal
and Shri Shyam Diwan, learned senior counsel that the
Registrar was not having any power under the M.P. Public
Trust Act, 1951 in the matter to pass any order. 79. While the matter was argued, a specific question
was put to Shri Shyam Diwan, learned senior counsel i.e.,
whether the Indian Trust Act, 1882 and / or M.P. Public
Trust Act, 1951 and / or any other law relating to Trust shall
apply in the matter or not ? He was fair enough in stating
before this Court that the provisions of M.P. Public Trust
Act, 1951 shall be applicable in the matter. Later on Shri
Kapil Sibal, after the arguments were over, has stated
before this Court that neither the Indian Trust Act, 1882 nor
the M.P. Public Trust Act, 1951 is applicable in respect of
the Trust in question. 80. Heard learned counsel for the parties at length and
perused the record. The matter is being disposed of finally
with the consent of the parties. 81. At the time of Indian independence in 1947, India
was divided into two sets of territories, one under direct
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -50- British rule, and the other under the suzerainty of the British
Crown with control over their internal affairs remaining in
the hands of their hereditary rulers. There were 562 Princely
States, having different types of revenue sharing
arrangements with the British, often depending on their
size, population and local conditions. At the time of
independence, there were several colonial enclaves
controlled by France and Portugal. 82. The integration of Indian States into Union of India
was a herculian job and the events took place from 1947 to
1951. Shri V.P. Menon in his book titled as 'The Story of
Integration of the Indian States' has dealt with the historical
aspect of integration of Indore State in the Indian Union.
Under the chapter Madhya Bharat, the issue of integration
of Indore State has been dealt with. The relevant extracts,
which are necessary to deal with the issue involved in the
present case are reproduced as under:- 83. The Government of India, Ministry of States
published a White Paper on Indian States printed in media
by the Manager, Government of India Press, New Delhi and
published by the Manager of Publications, Delhi, 1950. Part - VII deals with the settlement of Rulers' private properties. Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -52- Paragraphs - 156 to 159 reads as under:- Shooting rights of the Rulers have been
 recognised in defined areas subject to the laws
 in force and authorised working plans. (iv) As the privy purse is intended to cover
 all the expenses of the Ruler and his family
 including expenses on account of his personal
 staff, maintenance of residences, marriages
 and other ceremonies, Rulers have not been
 allowed to add to this income directly or
 indirectly. New jagirs or grants of villages
 made to the consorts or children of the Rulers
 have not been recognised as private property.
 Likewise all other rights enjoyed and claimed
 by Rulers in respect of land such as customary
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -54- right to enjoy the fruit of trees on common
lands, superior proprietary rights over
agricultural areas, proprietorship of service
jagirs, etc., have been extinguished. The
Rulers have surrendered their jagirs and where
their proprietary rights over lands has been
recognised, it has been done mainly on the
ground that many of them have the resources
and time to undertake modern and mechanical
farming and to bring new areas under Excepting the temples situated within the
palaces, temples and properties attached to
them have been constituted into Trusts. The
right of the public to worship at these temples
has been maintained. (ix) The Rulers will preserve for the nation
objects of historical importance like rare
manuscripts, paintings, arms etc. Even though
treated as private property these objects will be
preserved in Museums inside the States
concerned. Where any of them are kept in
private custody, scholars, students and others
interested will have access to them under
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -55- proper regulations. (x) A number of Rulers have houses in New
 Delhi. Most of these were constructed on plots
 of land allotted on special terms and conditions
 when New Delhi was built. The Rulers have
 claimed these houses but the question whether
 these houses should be treated as the Rulers'
 private property or State property is still under
 consideration as also the question of their
 acquisition for use by the Government of
 India. 159. Some of the special arrangements made for
management of important properties in States may
be mentioned: The amount has been funded and placed under
 a permanent Trust consisting of the Ruler of
 Indore, two nominees of the Ruler, one
 nominee of the Government of India and two
 nominees of the Madhya Bharat Government.
 This Trust will also administer the charities of
 Her Highness Maharani Ahalyabai Holkar. (ii) His Highness the Nawab of Rampur
 has agreed to set up a Trust in respect of his
 famous library which contains over 12,000
 rare manuscripts and several thousands of
 Moghul miniature paintings. (iii) His Highness the Maharaja Gaekwar
 has agreed to create a Trust with a corpus of
 Rs. 20 millions, the income from which will be
 available for works of public utility in the rural
 areas of the erstwhile Baroda State and for the
 advancement of education. The new Baroda
 University will be amongst the institutions
 which will benefit from these Trusts. (iv) Gangajali Fund.--This fund, which
 has a corpus of Rs. 16,237,000 was created by
 the Scindias as a special reserve fund for use
 during grave emergency such as famine. His
 Highness the Maharaja of Gwalior has made
 this fund available for public benefit. Subject
 to any instructions or directions from the
 Government of India, the authority to control
 and administer the fund is vested in the
 Rajpramukh of Madhya Bharat." Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -56- 84. The political integration of aforesaid territories in
India was a herculean task as already stated earlier and
Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and V.P. Menon played a great
role to convince the rulers of the various princely states to
accede to India. The process of accession / immigration /
merger took in various steps to accede to India and various
instruments of accession and covenant were signed by the
rulers / states. 85. In this backdrop, a covenant was published on
07.10.1948 in respect of Holkar State and it clearly states
that all the assets and liabilities of the covenanting states
shall be the asset and liability of the United State (Madhya
Bharat). It further provided for entitlement of private
properties to the ruler, thus, all the properties, which were
not the private properties of the ruler, became the properties
of United State (Madhya Bharat). The relevant extracts of
the covenant dated 07.10.1948 reads as under:- 86. By virtue of the covenant, which was published in
official gazette of the Madhya Bharat State, the erstwhile
Maharaja became the absolute owner of the properties
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -58- mentioned in the schedule. It is noteworthy to mention that
the properties under the Khasgi Trust were not at all
included in the personal properties of the Maharaja. 87. The erstwhile ruler of the Holkar State His Highness
Maharaja Yashwant Rao Holkar, Indore made a claim over
the Khasgi properties and vide letter dated 06.05.1949, he
was informed about the settlement of the claim in respect of
Khasgi properties. The letter dated 06.05.1949 of the
Government of India, Ministry of States, New Delhi, reads
as under:- -- Your Highness,
 With reference to the claim made by Your
 Highness concerning the above subject, I write to
 inform Your Highness that this claim has been
 finally settled on the basis stated in the enclosure to
 this letter. Yours Sincerely,
 Sd/ V. P. Menon. His Highness Maharaja Yeshwant Rao Holkar,
 Maharaja of Indore,
 Indore" 88. The settlement of claim by Government of India in
respect of Khasgi properties is reproduced as under:- The Trust shall consist of the following : Note: The trustees nominated by the
 Government of India and the Madhya Bharat
 Government shall be so appointed in
 consultation with the Ruler. The powers and functions of the Trust shall
 be subject to such legislation as the Central or
 Madhya Bharat Government may enact generally for
 purposes of regulating such trusts, except that the
 composition of the Trust and the manner of its
 formation as stated above shall not be liable to any
 modification or change by such legislation." The aforesaid settlement makes it very clear that the
Khasgi properties, as they were not the personal properties
of the Maharaja, became the exclusive properties of the
Madhya Bharat Government and the Madhya Bharat
Government was to pay Rs.2,91,952/- for upkeep of the
properties and the amount so funded by the Madhya Bharat
Government was to be placed under a permanent trust for
the charities of Her Highness Maharani Ahilyabai Holkar.
The Government of India also provided constitution of a
trust, which included the nominees of the Madhya Bharat
Government. 89. The Government of India, vide letter dated
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -60- 07.05.1949, informed His Highness Maharaja Yashwant
Rao Holkar about the private properties as per Article 12 of
the covenant governing Madhya Bharat and this was the
final settlement made on the subject and the same reads as
under:- (b) Along with the Place and the Annex, the
 surrounding area as indicated below is also included: There are of the Sukhniwas Homes,
Sukhniwas palace, Hava Bungalow and the
unfurnished Kothi, known as Phuti Kothi is shown
on the enclose map signed by His Highness (Encl. 3) 5. The lal Bagh Palace, Indore. 6. The Daryao Mahal, Barwaha. (i)Such part of the Maheshwar Fort as includes (1)
the Palace, i.e. the Bada, (2) The State Chhatries,
and (3) temples including the palace State Chhatries
and the temples. Note: There would be no objection to the stops
leading to the Ghats through the Bada being used by
the public provided the privacy, as at present, of the
inner sanctions of the Bada is maintained. 8. The Kothi as Bhesle (Rampura - Bhanpura) 9. Bedar Berchha Bir. This Bir will belong to
His Highness subject to his paying regular
assessment on the Bir fixed in accordance with the
principles of soil classification and circle rates. The
details of the Bir as claimed are shown on the
enclosed map (signed by His Highness, encl. No.4)
Immovable property outside the State. 10. The properties in the Deccan: Miscellaneous : The above properties claimed consist, in the
main of the following: Note : His Highness shall may on the
 King over the above mentioned properties,
 a sum of Rs.1,25,000/- (Rupees One lac
 and twenty five thousand only) to the
 Madhya Bharat Government towards the
 cost of maintenance of the above properties
 by the Government since the 16th June
 1948. Jeweler and Gold: Note : The above mentioned items of Crown
(dyniastic) jewellery shall be kept by His Highness
(subject to the right of inspection by Government)
for use by Rulers of Indore on ceremonial occasions
as in the past. 16. Silver kept in the Jawahar Khana. This
includes all utensils and also melted silver.
The preserves at Burwaha; Rampura-Bhanpura,
Rathar; Mohadi, Matakhodra, Ralamandal, Kanchla
and Nahar Zabua in the Indore District; Ranigaon
range, Kantaphod range and Satwas range in the
Nemawar District. In these preserves His Highness
the Maharaja of Indore will have exclusive shooting
rights. The Burwaha preserve is intended to include the
following :- Note : The Ruler's rights over the above
 mentioned preserves shall be regulated be the
 general formula that may be approved as
 regards such preserves. 18. The exclusive rights in spot in the tank of
Badagaon, Depalpur (Indore District) and Choli near
Maheshwar (Nimar District) 19. Income from Alampur Mahal
Whatever is the annual income from land revenue of
the village comprised in this Mahal at the time when
the Holkar State joined the Madhya Bharat Union is
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -64- accepted as the income in Perpetuity of the Ruler of
 Indore for the purpose of being utilised for the
 Chhatri at Alampur of the Founder of the House of
 Holkers. This annual income shall, with effect from
 June 16, 1948, on which the date the Holkar State
 joined the Madhya Bharat Union, be found and kept
 separately under permanent Trust which shall be
 empowered to deal with this fund for the above
 mentioned purpose. Trust shall consist of the
 following : Two nominees of the Madhya Bharat
 Government. Note : The trustees nominated by the
 Government of India and the Madhya Bharat
 Government shall be so appointed in
 consultation with the Ruler. The powers and functions of the Trust shall
 be subject to such legislation as the Central or
 Madhya Bharat Government may enact generally for
 purposes of regulating such trusts, except that the
 composition of the Trust and the manner of its
 formation as stated above shall no be liable to any
 modification or change by such legislation. 20. General Note: In witness whereof the parties hereto have
 signed this INDENTURE on the date or mentioned
 in each case." The aforesaid trust deed makes it very clear that as
per the instrument dated 07.05.1949 executed in accordance
with the covenant dated 22.04.1948, the Khasgi properties
and the income from the Khasgi properties shall lapse for
all time to the Madhya Bharat Government and in lieu
thereof the Government shall in perpetuity set aside
annually from its revenue a sum of Rs.2,91,952/-. The trust
deed also makes it very clear that the properties will not be
sold, the Trust shall hold and possess the Trust properties
and have the power to manage the said properties only. 91. Another important aspect of the case is that the trust
deed was also executed by Maharaja Yashwant Rao Holkar
in favour of Princess Usha Devi in respect of the personal
properties of Maharaja on 10.04.1950 and the trust deed
dated 10.04.1950 did not include the Khasgi properties. 92. The Madhya Bharat Government issued a
notification empowering the Commissioner and Collector in
respect of Maufi land. As already stated earlier, a Trust was
constituted in respect of Khasgi (Devi Ahilyabai Holkar
Charities) Trust on 27.06.1962 and a gazette notification
was issued on 27.07.1962 by the Divisional Commissioner.
The Trust in fact is misconstruing notification dated
27.07.1962. As per the notification dated 27.07.1962, it was
issued only for the purpose of upkeep and maintenance of
the trust properties by the Trust as earlier on account of
notification dated 28.12.1954, they were required to be
maintained by Maufi section of Madhya Pradesh
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -71- Government. 93. Shri M.N. Jagdale, the Secretary of the Trust, in the
year 1969 i.e. on 08.05.1969, wrote a letter to the Chief
Secretary of the State of Madhya Pradesh admitting
categorically that there is no provision for sale of Trust
properties, and therefore, sanction be accorded by the State
of Madhya Pradesh for sale of Trust properties i.e., Nagwa
Bagicha. The letter of Secretary of the Trust is reproduced
as under:- 94. The Chief Secretary of the State of Madhya
Pradesh, in response to the letter of the Trust, wrote a D.O.
letter to the Secretary on 13.06.1969 and the same reads as
under:- Though the aforesaid letter refers to some opinion
from the Law Department, however, it was never placed by
the either side on record. Otherwise also, the letter of the
Chief Secretary is mere D.O. letter and the property of the
Government cannot be sold by issuance of a D.O. letter
without a cabinet decision. 95. Another important aspect of the case is that Shri
M.P. Shrivastava, The Chief Secretary was also one of the
trustees, thus his D.O. letter dated 30.06.1969 does not have
any legal sanctity. 96. The Trust on 23.06.1969 submitted an application
under Section 35(1)(a) of the Madhya Pradesh Public Trust
Act, 1956 to the Registrar of Public Trust, Indore seeking a
decision whether the Trust was within exemption from the
operation of Madhya Pradesh Trust Act, 1951. In the
aforesaid letter also in paragraph - 2, it was admitted that as
per the trust deed the properties have lapsed in the State of
Mahdya Pradesh, meaning thereby, the properties are
absolutely the properties of the State Government.
Paragraphs - 2 and 6 of the application reads as under:- The Trust itself has admitted in paragraph - 2 that
the properties are the State Government's properties and in
paragraph - 6, it has been admitted by the Trust that the
charities and the religious endowments were under the
Management of Holkar State earlier, and subsequently, they
have been taken over by the State of Madhya Pradesh. 97. The Trust in question kept on writing letter to
various authorities for sale of Trust properties and the
Under Secretary, General Administration Department, State
of Madhya Pradesh issued a letter to the Commissioner
stating categorically that the Khasgi Trust will have to seek
permission under Section 14 of the M.P. Public Trust, 1951
from the Registrar in case of sale of any of the Trust
properties. This letter was duly served to the Trust and the
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -75- Trust, at no point of time, took any objection in the matter. 98. On 10.08.1971, the Registrar, Public Trust, Indore,
passed an order exempting Khasgi (Devi Ahilyabai Holkar
Charities) Trust from its registration only. 99. Section 36(1)(a) of the M.P. Public Trust Act, 1951
reads as under:- For exemption under the M.P. Public Trust, 1951, a
notification is mandatory under Section 36(2) of the M.P.
Public Trust Act, 1951 and in the present case, no such
notification has been placed on record. Thus, the order
passed by the Registrar does not give any exemption to the
Trust. 100. The most unfortunate thing, which happened, was
execution of supplementary trust deed on 08.02.1972. A
supplementary trust deed was executed by the trustees and
it was mentioned in the fourth paragraph that the power to
sell immovable properties of the Trust has not been
expressly stated in the original trust deed but it was implied.
It was declared that the trustees always had and shall have
the power to alienate the property of the Trust for benefit of
the Trust. Relevant extracts of the supplementary trust deed
reads as under:- The aforesaid amendment is certainly a nullity as it
is without authority. It is contrary to the spirit of the original
trust deed which was for the maintenance, upkeep and
preservation of the properties and the same is also the object
of the State Government behind formation of the Trust. The
title of the properties had lapsed in perpetuity with the State
of Madhya Pradesh (Madhya Bharat) and it was never
transferred to the Trust. Thus, the Trust could not have sold
the properties and no such sale was approved by the
Registrar, Public Trust, Indore. 101. It is pertinent note that various civil suits have been
filed in respect of the properties belonging to erstwhile
Maharaja Yashwant Rao Holkar and one such civil suit was
filed i.e., Civil Suit No.15/1973 by Shriman Malhar Rao
Holkar against Princess Usharaje Holkar and others. A
written statement was filed on 18.02.1974 on behalf of the
Trust and other defendants in the aforesaid civil suit and the
Trust has admitted before the trial Court in the aforesaid
civil suit that Khasgi Trust properties are not the personal
properties. It has been categorically stated on affidavit by
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -77- the trustees that the trust deed dated 27.06.1962 creating
Khasgi Trust and Alampur Trust are not the joint family
properties or ancestral properties or personal properties. It
has also been stated in the written statement that the Trust
properties vested in the United State of Madhya Bharat up
to 1956 after 1948 and after 1956 into the State of Madhya
Pradesh. Thus, in respect of various litigation, the trustees
have admitted before this Court also (F.A. No.264/2003)
that the ownership of the Trust properties lies with the State
of Madhya Pradesh. 102. The trustees on 07.02.2005 made an application to
the Registrar, Public Trust seeking permission for grant of
lease of Trust properties and this fact establishes that the
trustees were well aware that the Trust in question is a
public Trust governed by M.P. Public Trust Act, 1951. The
applications made by the trustees were rejected on
14.12.2005. The Trust in question, in spite of the fact that
the State of Madhya Pradesh is the titleholder of the Trust
properties, kept on leasing out various properties for
peanuts. On 28.07.2007, the Secretary of the Trust leased
out the property of Ganpati Mandir, South Tora, Zuni,
Indore admeasuring 1800 sq.ft. for a period of 30 years to
one Abdul Rehman for Rs.720/- per year. The meager
amount of Rs.720/- per year shows that malafides involved
in the transaction. 103. On 05.06.2008, a resolution was passed by the
trustees authorizing trustees Shri S.C. Malhotra and Shri
K.S. Rathore to finalize sale of Trust property situated at
Haridwar i.e. Kusha Ghat admeasuring 11931 sq.ft. Kusha
Ghat is a Ghat of great historic importance and in Haridwar
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -78- all Mundan Sanskars take place at Kusha Ghat. It is being
used since time immemorial by the believers of Hindu faith
and it is open to public at large and in respect of this
particular property, which is a Ghat and shops, a resolution
was passed by the Trust authorizing the trustees to dispose
it off. 104. Section 47 of the Indian Trust Act, 1882 reads as
under:- Comments No trustee can delegate his powers and
 duties to another transtee and any agreement to do so
 would be illegal and void and would not be covered
 by any of the exceptions in section 47 ; H.E.H.: The
 Nizam's Jewellery Trust (in re:), AIR 1980 SC 17." As per the aforesaid statutory provision of law, a
trustee cannot delegate power unless at least any one of the
four conditions mentioned thereunder is fulfilled. 105. The most shocking aspect of the case is that the
resolution was passed on 05.06.2008 and the sale agreement
was already executed on 08.02.2007, meaning thereby, after
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -79- executing the agreement, without there being any authority
from the trustees, subsequent resolution was passed
authorizing two of the trustees to finalize sale of the
property. It makes it very clear that the agreement was
executed without there being any authority from the
trustees. At the time of execution of agreement to sell dated
08.02.2007, there was an interim order against the transfer
of the property or creation of any rights passed by this
Court in F.A. No.264/2003. 106. As already stated earlier, the property of Kusha
Ghat is of great religious importance and finds a mention in
Scandapuran which is one of the oldest scriptures in
Hinduism. Hindi translation of the relevant portion of the
scripture is quoted as under (Annexure-R/19):- 107. After passing a resolution on 05.06.2008, Shri S.C.
Malhotra one of the trustees on 05.09.2008 executed a
Power of Attorney appointing one Raghvendra Sharma as
Trust duly appointed attorney with respect to the property
situated at Kusha Ghat (Haridwar) admeasuring 13370 sq.ft.
(Annexure-R/16). It is pertinent to note that the resolution
of the Trust dated 05.06.2008 did not authorize Shri S.C.
Malhotra to execute further a Power of Attorney for sale of
property, however, on his own he executed a Power of
Attorney in favour of Raghvendra Sharma who was totally
a stranger to dispose of Kusha Ghat which is of great
religious importance as it finds place in Scandapuran also. 108. It is also pertinent to note that Shri S.C. Malhotra
was only authorized by the Trust for the property
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -80- admeasuring 11931 sq. ft., however, he executed a Power of
Attorney with respect to property admeasuring 13370 sq.ft. 109. The validity of power of Attorney dated 05.06.2008
came to an end and a fresh Power of Attorney was executed
by Shri K.S. Rathore in respect of Shri Raghvendra Sharma
on 05.06.2009. Shri K.S. Rathore was not a trustee and he
had no power to execute the Power of Attorney. Shri
Raghvendra Shrama on the basis of Power of Attorney
executed by Shri K.S. Rathore on 02.09.2009, sold out the
Trust properties situated at Kusha Ghat (Haridwar) to one
Smt. Nikita W/o Shri Raghvendra Sharma (his own wife)
and Shri Aniruddh Kumar. Shri Raghvendra Sharma also
leased out the land admeasuring 653 sq.m. to Shri Aniruddh
Kumar for a period of 29 years. 110. The trustees of the Khasgi Trust, knowing fully well
that they are not the owner of the property in question,
entered into sale of Trust properties and sold Ghat property
of great religious importance and as they were aware of the
fact that they are not the owner of the Trust properties,
preferred a writ petition before this Court i.e. W.P.
No.11618/2012 against the State of Madhya Pradesh &
three others for quashment of order dated 05.11.2012 and
order dated 30.11.2012. 111. The order passed the Collector dated 05.11.2012
and order dated 30.11.2012 passed by the Registrar dated
30.11.2012 are reproduced as under:- VªLVMhM ds mDr va'k ds ijh{k.k ls ;g Li"V gksrk gS
fd Hkkjr dh Lora=rk ds mijkar tc fofHkUu fj;klrksa dk
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -82- Hkkjro"kZ esa foy; gqvk rc bUnkSj ds egkjktk ;'koUrjko gksYdj
ml le; gksYdj LVsV ds 'kkld FksA fj;klr dk rRdkyhu
e/;Hkkjr ¼i'pkrorhZ e/;izns'k½ esa foy; dk foys[k fnukad 22
vizSy 1948 dks fy[kk x;k rFkk bl foys[k ds vk/kkj ij jktk
rFkk e/; Hkkjr ljdkj ¼e/;izns'k½ o Hkkjr ljdkj ds chp
fnukad 7 ebZ] 1949 dks ,d foys[k fu"ikfnr gqvk ftlesa
mHk;i{kksa ds chp lgefr gqbZ fd Khasgi properties and the
income from Khasgi shall lapse for all times to the
Madhya Bharat Government and in lieu thereof the
Madhya Bharat Government shall in perpetuity set
aside annually from its revenue a sum of
Rs.2,91,952/- (Rupees two lakhs, ninety one
thousand, nine hundred an fifty two only), With
effect from 16-6-1948 for expending on charities
and religious endowment provided in the budget of
the Holkar State for 1947-48 inclusive of charities
founded by Her Highness Maharani Devi Ahilya
Bai Holkar AND FURTHER that the said sum of
Rs.2,91,952/-(RUPEES TWO LACS NINETY ONE
THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED FIFTY TWO
only) Shall be Funded And put under a permanent
Trust constituted in the manner hereinafter
specified, for the maintenance upkeep and
preservation of the said charities and religious
endowments. blls ;g rkRi;Z fudyrk gS fd 7 ebZ 1949 ds
i'pkr [kklxh izkiVhZt ds :i esa vafdr leLr lEifRr o mlls
gksus okyh vk; e/; Hkkjr ljdkj@e0iz0 ljdkj esa fufgr gks
xbZ Fkh vkSj bl izdkj ;g lEifRr 7 ebZ 1949 ds i'pkr e/;
izns'k ljdkj esa fufgr 'kkldh; o lkoZtfud lEifRr dh Js.kh
esa vkb xbZ FkhA e/; Hkkjr ljdkj@e/;izns'k ljdkj us bl
lEifRr ds maintenance upkeep o preservation ds
fy, :- 2]91]952@& dh ,U;qVh Lohd`r dh gSA Lohd`r dh xbZ
bl /kujkf'k ds lnqi;ksx fufEkRr bl VªLV dk fuekZ.k 27 twu]
1962 dks VªLVMhM ls fd;k x;k rFkk bl /kujkf'k dk iz;ksx
VªLVht dh ns[k js[k esa e/;izns'k ljdkj esa fufgr izkiVhZt ds
maintenance upkeep o preservation ds fy;s fd;k tkuk
fu/kkZfjr gSA
 vr% ;g rF; Li"V gS fd iz'uk/khu lHkh laifRr;ka jkT;
'kklu esa fufgr gSA dksousaV 1949 ,oa izFke VªLVhMhM 1962
esa ;gh fyf[kr gS fd [kklxh lEifRr;ksa dk la/kkj.k djuk VªLV
dk nkf;Ro gS ysfdu VªLV dks lEifRr;ksa ds fodz; dk vf/kdkj
drbZ mn~Hkwr ugh gksrk gSA i'pkrorhZ iwjd MhM 1972 esa VªLV }
kjk 'kklu dh iwokZuqefr ds fcuk VªLV lEifRr ds fodz; dk
vf/kdkj izkIr djus dh vukf/kd`r ps"Vk dh xbZ gS tks fd
voS/kkfud gSA
 [kklxh nsoh vfgY;kckbZ gksYdj psfjVht VªLV] bUnkSj dh
U;klMhM vuqlkj jkT; 'kklu esa foyf;r vpy lEifRr;ka iwjs
Hkkjr o"kZ ds vyx&vyx izns'kksa esa fLFkr gSA vpy lEifRr;ka
dk voS/kkfud :i ls varj.k jksdus ds mn~ns'; ls mDr vpy
lEifRr;ksa dk banzkt jktLo vfHkys[kksa esa e/; izns'k jkT; 'kklu
ds Hkwfe Lokeh LoRo ij vafdr fd;k tkuk vko';d gSA
 vr% jkT; 'kklu dh lEifRr dk voS/kkfud varj.k ij
jksd yxkus ds n`f"Vdks.k ls vknsf'kr fd;k tkrk gS fd U;kl dks
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -83- ek= O;oLFkk ds fy, lkSaih xbZ leLr vpy lEifRr;ksa ij jkT;
 'kklu dk Hkwfe Lokeh LoRo Hkw vfHkys[kksa ds Hkwfe Lokeh LoRo
 ds :i esa vafdr fd;k tkosa ,oa Li"Vr% vgLrkarj.kh; fy[kk
 tk;saA pwafd Hkkjr ds vU; izns'kksa esa Hkh mYysf[kr jkT; 'kklu dh
 lacaf/kr vusd lEifRr gSA vr% mu izns'kksa ds lacaf/kr dysDVj
 dks vkns'k dh izfr fdz;kUo;u gsrq Hksth tkosaA
 bUnkSj ftys ds lacaf/kr lHkh vuqfoHkkxh; vf/kdkjh] bankSj
 ,oa rglhynkj ,oa vk;qDr uxj ikfyd fuxe] bankSj funsZ'kkuqlkj
 banzkt djkdj rRdky ikyu djk;k tkdj ikyu izfrosnu bl
 U;k;ky; esa rRdky Hkstsa A
 dysDVj" A plain reading of Clause (1) of Article 363 emphatically gives the impression that no Court in
this country, including this Court shall have
jurisdiction to deal with any dispute arising out of
treaties, agreements etc., entered into between the
Rulers of erstwhile Indian States and the
Government of India. 25. Coming to the facts of the present case, on
16-06-1948 through the Covenant that is exhibit P-
79 Maharaja of Holkar along with other Princely
States agreed to merge with the dominion of India.
According to Article 12 of the Covenant, the Ruler
can enjoy the rights over his personal properties
which are included in the Covenant for which
purpose a list of his personal properties was
required to be submitted to the Government. The
said Article reads thus: ...No such dispute shall be referable after the
 first day of July, 1949. 26. As per article 12(2) of the Covenant, the
Maharaja of Holkar has furnished the details of the
properties under different Heads. He furnished the
details under the Heads as immovable properties
comprising of the properties inside the State, outside
the State, miscellaneous and at clause 14
 "certain properties under the administrative
 control of the Household Department of the
 Holkar State except such of the afore
 mentioned property with the Household
 Department as had already been transferred to
 the two guest houses at Indore viz the ones
 situated in the building which was known as
 the Indore hostel and the other in Rajender
 Bhavan on the Bombay-Agra road". 27. The Suit scheduled properties which are in
possession of the plaintiff finds no mention in the
entire list of properties, but the plaintiff derives his
title to the property from Clause 14 of the list of
properties which speaks about all properties under
the control of the Household Department. The
plaintiff to substantiate her case that the Suit
schedule properties are private properties is relying
upon clause 14 of the list of properties, the taxes
paid by her and her father in respect of these
properties, the communication dated 07-05-1948
and letter dated 30-01- 1956 wherein the Suit
scheduled properties were retransferred to the
Household Department. Though lot of evidence was
adduced on behalf of the plaintiff about paying
taxes to substantiate her case that the Suit scheduled
properties are the private properties of the Ruler, the
core issue that requires to be adjudicated is whether
it is the personal property of the Ruler or the
property was belonging to the State. To give any
finding with regard to the ownership of the property
invariably we have to look at the Covenant for the
reason the Covenant is the source of title for the
plaintiff. At any stretch of imagination, we cannot
agree with the finding of the appellate Court that the
right of the plaintiff is a pre- existing right. By all
means the right of the plaintiff flows from the
Covenant by virtue of which the plaintiff claims title
over these properties, which according to her are
declared as private properties of the Ruler. 28. A bare perusal of Article 363 and the relief
sought by the plaintiff in the Suit in unequivocal
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -87- terms attracts the bar contained in Article 363 of the
Constitution of India. The Court below
distinguished the judgment in Draupadi Devi 's case
that it is not applicable to the facts of the present
case. We are of the considered opinion that the rule
of law laid down in that case applies to the case on
hand. This Court in the case of Draupadi Devi held: On the other hand, this clause of the Covenant
 merely means that, if the Ruler of the
 Covenanting State claimed property to be his
 private property and the Government of India
 did not agree, it was open to the Ruler to have
 this issue decided in the manner contemplated
 by clause (3). Clause (3) of Article XII does
 not mean that the Government was obliged to
 refer to the dispute upon its failure to
 recognise it as private property. Secondly, the
 dispute as to whether a particular property was
 or was not recognised as private property of
 the Ruler was itself a dispute arising out of the
 terms of the Covenant and, therefore, not
 adjudicable by municipal courts as being
 beyond the jurisdiction of the municipal courts
 by reason of Article 363 of the Constitution". 29. The above ratio laid down by this Court
makes one to understand that prior to Covenant, the
ownership of all the properties remain vested with
the Ruler, but once the Covenant is entered into, the
Government takes over all the properties except
those which the Government recognises as private
properties of the Ruler. This court had categorically
held that there cannot be any implied recognition of
the property as private property at any later stages
when an opportunity had already been granted to
raise this issue in terms of clause (3) of Article 12 before defined period. In the case on hand also,
similar clause existed where a dispute to recognise a
property as private property could be raised only
before 1st July, 1949. A dispute whether a property
was recognised as private property or not was held
to be a dispute arising out of the terms of Covenant,
thereby barring the Courts to adjudicate the same in
view of Article 363 of Constitution. 30. Also in Madhav Rao Jivaji Rao Scindia (supra), this Court while interpreting Article 363 of
the Constitution, observed that a dispute relating to
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -88- the enforcement, interpretation or breach of any
treaty etc., is barred from the Courts' jurisdiction.
The bar comes into play only when the dispute is
arising out of the provisions of a treaty, Covenant
etc., as in the present case. This Court held that Article 363 has two parts. The first part relates to
disputes arising out of Agreements and Covenants
etc. The jurisdiction of this Court as well as of other
Courts is clearly barred in respect of disputes falling
within that part. Then comes the second part of Article 363 which refers to disputes in respect of
any right accruing under or any liability or
obligation arising out of any of the provisions of the
Constitution relating to any agreement, Covenant
etc. It was specifically mentioned that right as
mentioned in Article 363 signifies property. 31. In yet another case, Karan Singh (Dr.) vs.
State of J&K, (2004) 5 SCC 698, while examining
the applicability of Article 363 of the Constitution
to the disputes arising out of a treaty, Covenant etc.,
this Court observed that all Courts including the
Supreme Court is barred to determine any right
arising out of a Covenant . The correspondence
exchanged between the Ruler and the Government
would amount to agreement within the meaning of Article 363. 32. In view of our above discussion and as
settled by this Court in the above judgments,
Covenant was an act of State and any dispute arising
out of its terms cannot form the subject matter in
any Court including the Supreme Court, and there
cannot be any implied recognition of the property as
private property at any later stages when an
opportunity had already been granted to raise issue
in terms of clause 3 of Article 12 before defined
period; above all, the properties do not find place in
the Covenant. The plaintiff is trying to interpret the
Covenant that all properties which are in the
custody of the Household Department are the
personal properties of the Ruler. We feel that such
interpretation and implied recognition is
impermissible as held by this Court in Draupadi
Devi. Hence the Court below erred in entertaining
the Suit without properly taking into consideration
the judgments and the proposition of law laid down
by this Court in catena of cases. Hence we are of the
view that the relief in the Suit falls within the ambit
of Article 363 of the Constitution of India and the
Suit is not maintainable. Accordingly first issue is
answered in favour of the appellant/State and
against respondent/plaintiff. Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -89- 33. Once we have given our finding on the
maintainability of the Suit, we need not to go into
the other issues. But in view of the alternative
argument advanced by the counsel, we are of the
view that we should throw some light on those
issues. It is the finding of the Trial Court that the
lands were retransferred to the Holkar State in the
year 1951, and re- transferring is without any
authority and it is bad. The Trial Court held that
though it is the specific case of the plaintiff that they
are paying Tauzi, there is no evidence to show that
they have paid Tauzi prior to 1951 and the
correspondence of the plaintiff and her father shows
that the Suit scheduled properties were not included
in item no 14 of the list of properties and further
held that Suit scheduled properties were allotted to
the Forest Department. First coming to the issue of
transfer of land to Forest Department, it is settled
law that parties are governed by their pleadings and
the burden lies on the person who pleads to prove
and further plaintiff has to succeed basing on the
strengths of his case and cannot depend upon the
weakness of the defendant's case. The State having
alleged several things, has failed to mark any
document to show that the properties were
transferred to the Forest Department and the
retransfer in the year 1951 was without any
authority of law. Though the State has filed certain
documents before us, but as they are not part of the
evidence, we are not inclined to look at those
documents. 34. The appellant State as defendant in the Suit
has marked two documents. While remanding the
appeals preferred by the defendant and the plaintiff,
the appellate Court gave a categorical finding that
the Trial Court should not permit any of the parties
to adduce further evidence. The remand order of the
appellate Court was not questioned by the State.
After the remand, the Suit was dismissed by the
Trial Court wherein a finding was recorded that no
evidence is produced before the Court to show that
the property was transferred to the Forest
Department. This finding has become final as no
cross appeal is preferred by the appellant/State.
Hence we are not inclined to look into these
documents. 35. The plaintiff by marking the voluminous
documentary evidence and by examining PW 5 and
PW 7 established that they were in continuous
possession of property till 1960, except for a short
period when the Suit scheduled properties were
given to the Army Department. Tauzi was also paid
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -90- by Maharaja and later by the plaintiff. The finding
of the Trial Court in this regard that the plaintiff has
failed to adduce any evidence to show that Tauzi
was paid prior to 1951, is contrary to the material on
record. In spite of all these factors that the Maharaja
and the plaintiff were in continuous possession of
property and paid Tauzi for the properties, however
long the plaintiff's possession may be and paying of
the taxes will not give her any right seeking
declaration of ownership when these properties are
part of a Covenant and calls for an interpretation of
the Covenant. In addition to this, the plaintiff wrote
a letter to the Additional Chief Secretary,
Government General, Administrative Department,
Bhopal, dated 1st October 1962, wherein she
requested for a declaration of the Suit scheduled
properties as the private properties as declared by
the Maharaja of Holkar which clearly shows that the
whole cause of action and the reliefs sought for in
the Suit are based on the Covenant and the rights
flown from the Covenant. 36. We are not inclined to go into the discussion
whether the re-transfer of land is without authority
or not, whether these properties are under the
control of Household Department as it amounts to
deciding the dispute arising out of the Covenant,
which is barred under Article 363 of the
Constitution of India. Even assuming for a minute
that these properties are under the control of the
Household Department, still the plaintiff cannot
succeed for the reason that Maharaja of Holkar in
the list of properties furnished has failed to mention
these properties specifically, and interpretation of
Covenant is not permissible as per settled law. 37. The other finding which we are not able to
accept is that the Maharaja is the owner as well as
the tenant of the property. All the rights whichever
pleaded by the plaintiff are the rights flown only
from the Covenant. As provided under clause 12(1)
of Covenant, admittedly by the letter dated 29-9-
1962 the respondent/plaintiff claimed the title by
way of Covenant and not by any such tenancy
rights. Hence, the respondent plaintiff cannot claim
any right of tenancy over the Suit schedule
properties and such plea is misconceived and she is
estopped from raising such a plea. 38. Now we would like to deal with the other
issue i.e., applicability of Section 158(2) of the
Madhya Pradesh Land Revenue Code, 1959. The
said Section came into force with retrospective
effect from October 2, 1959 and reads thus: 39. The plaintiff/respondent cannot seek the
 status of Bhumiswami independent of the Covenant
 because the rights under Section 158(2) arise out of
 the Covenant itself. The source to hold the land
 arises by virtue of a Covenant. When the right so
 claimed by way of Covenant is disputed and the
 relief of settling these disputes is barred under Article 363 of the Constitution, in our considered
 view, one cannot claim to be "Bhumiswami" under
 Section 158(2) of the Madhya Pradesh Land
 Revenue Code, independent of the Covenant.
 Accordingly, this issue is held in favour of
 appellant/State and against the respondent/plaintiff.
 Hence we are of the considered opinion that the Suit
 filed by the plaintiff for declaration and injunction is
 barred under Article 363 of the Constitution of India
 and the plaintiff is not entitled for any relief under
 Section 158(2) of the Madhya Pradesh Land
 Revenue Code claiming the rights of Bhumiswami. 40. For all the foregoing reasons, we allow these
 appeals by setting adie the impugned judgments of
 the High Court and consequently the suit is
 dismissed. However, there shall be no order as to
 consts." In light of the aforesaid judgment delivered by the
Hon'ble Supreme Court, it is crystal clear that as per the
stipulation in the covenant concerned falling under Article
326 , Ruler (Maharaja Holkar) furnished specific entries of
immovable properties falling under administrative control
of household department of Holkar State. The property,
which was not included in that inventory and which also did
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -92- not form part of the private property of the Ruler, vested in
the State Government and after merger, keeping in view Article 363 , the Ruler cannot file a civil suit or even
approach this Court claiming title of the property that it was
the property not included in the personal property of the
Ruler, there cannot be any claim of implied recognition of
private property of Ruler at a later stage. 116. In the present case also, the Trust's properties are
certainly not at all private properties of the Ruler, the
property is vested in the State of Madhya Pradesh and it is
the State of Madhya Pradesh, which is the titleholder of the
properties and by no stretch of imagination, the learned
Single Judge could have decided the writ petition there
being a specific bar under Article 363 of the Constitution of
India. 117. Undisputedly, the title in respect of Khasgi
properties lies with the State of Madhya Pradesh and once
the State of Madhya Pradesh is the titleholder, the learned
Single Judge has erred in law and facts in delivering the
judgment and quashing the order of the Collector by which
he has simply directed the authorities to enter the name of
State of Madhya Pradesh in the revenue record in respect of
Khasgi Trust properties. Illegal sales could not have been
ignored by the learned Single Judge as he has observed that
transfer prior to the judgment will not be looked into. 118. This Court has carefully gone through the judgment
relied upon by learned counsel for the parties in depth. The
property in question on account of covenant signed at the
time of merger was certainly not at all private properties of
Maharaja. Undisputedly the property vested in the State of
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -93- Madhya Bharat and after enactment of Madhya Pradash
Reorganization Act and creation of Madhya Pradesh being
the successor State, the property vested in the State of
Madhya Pradesh. The Collector has not at all decided the
issue of title. The Collector by an order dated 05.11.2012,
as the property was the exclusive property of the State of
Madhya Pradesh, has passed an order in respect of property
of the State of Madhya Pradesh. The Trust, in case, it was
claiming title of the property in question, should have file
the civil suit or should have availed any other remedy
available under the law. The property, as per the covenant
after creation of Madhya Bharat State and State of Madhya
Pradesh, became the property of the State Government, and
therefore, the question of granting an opportunity of hearing
to the trustees does not arise. The record reveals that a
proper notice was issued and the Trust did file a reply
before the Collector in the matter, hence, violation of
principles of natural justice does not arise. 119. It has been vehemently argued that the Chief
Secretary of the State of Madhya Pradesh has written a
letter dated 13.06.1969 permitting the Trust to go ahead
with the sale of the property, and therefore, the State
Government is estopped from taking a contrary stand in the
matter that there was no permission of the State in respect
of sale of the property. 120. The letter dated 13.06.1969 was merely a D.O. letter
and had no legal sanctity as such. From a bare perusal of the
subject document it is apparent that on top right hand side
corner the serial number has been mentioned as, 'DO No.
193/CS/69'. The format of the letter is also unmistakably
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -94- that of a DO Letter. Moreover, the subject letter nowhere
mentions that the government has accorded sanction for
transfer of the Trust Property. The relevant portion of the
letter states that- "......the question of according any
sanction for the intended transfer by sale of any item of
Trust Property does not arise." A careful examination of
the aforesaid content suggests that Shri M P Shrivastava
clearly mentioned that there was no question of according
sanction for transfer of Trust Property. 121. Shri M P Shrivastava had no authority to give
sanction for alienation of government property. The
property of government could not be given away by a DO
letter without a cabinet decision. Furthermore, Shri M.P
Shrivastava was one of the trustees, thus he was not in a
position to accord any sanction to the Trust on behalf of the
State Government. 122. As per the Rules of Business of the Executive
Government of Madhya Pradesh, framed in exercise of the
powers under clauses (2) and (3) of Article 166 of the
Constitution of India, proposals involving the alienation
either temporary or permanent, by way of sale, grant or
lease of Government property exceeding Rs. 10 lac in value
shall have to be placed before the Council of Ministers and
dealt with only in accordance with the procedure laid down
in supplementary instruction 18 under rule 13. No such
procedure was ever followed for alienation of the property.
Obviously the subject letter does not amount to a sanction
of the Council of Ministers as mentioned above. Relevant
portion of the rules is reproduced below: 123. The subject letter was not issued by or in the name
of the Governor of Madhya Pradesh. The decision to accord
sanction to alienate government property is a policy
decision which needs to be taken by the government and the
same cannot be replaced by a DO Letter of an officer of the
State Government. 124. The subject letter refers to the opinion of the law
department however the same was not on record and there
is no mention regarding the content of such opinion. 125. This aspect has been pleaded in para No. 04 of the
grounds in the appeal memo by the appellant. The effect of
the subject letter was also mentioned in the synopsis dated
01.09.2020 submitted by the appellants before this Hon'ble
Court on 05.09.2020. 126. More so, the orders of the State Govt. are always
issued in the name and on behalf of Hon'ble Governor it is
the statutory requirement Under Article 166(i) of the
Constitution of India and unless the order is issued in the
name and on behalf of the Hon'ble Governor it cannot be
considered to be the decision of a State Govt. Following are
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -96- the citations : In the case of Lallaram Vs. Jaipur Development
 Authority -(2016) 11 SCC 31 :- In light of the aforesaid, by no stretch of
imagination, it can be said that letter dated 13.06.1969 is the
permission granted by the State Government or it was a
decision communicated by the State Government. 127. The so called letter dated 13.06.1969 is a D.O. letter
and any decision as per the Business Allocation Rules of
the State of Madhya Pradesh in respect of a sale of property
has to be issued in the name of the Governor of the State of
Madhya Pradesh. The Chief, Secretary is nobody to write a
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -97- letter in respect of property of the State of Madhya Pradesh
as has been done in the present case. 128. Another shocking aspect of the case is that the then
Chief Secretary was also one of the trustees and he has
acted as a Judge in his own cause, and therefore, the
arguments canvassed by learned counsel for the Trust and
the trustees do not help them in any manner. 129. The facts of the case make it very clear that the
properties, though managed by the Trust, had in fact vested
in the State Government upon merger and do not form part
of property settled with the outgoing proprietor / Holkar
State, and therefore, as the property was the property of the
State of Mahdya Pradesh it was a public trust, permission
should have been obtained from the Registrar, Public Trust
while disposing of the property or from the State of Madhya
Pradesh. 130. So far as opportunity of hearing to Union of India is
concerned, Shri Manoj Manav, learned counsel has
appeared in the matter and has argued at length stating
categorically that the property exclusively belongs to State
of Madhya of Madhya Pradesh and does not belong to the
Ruler or to the Trust. He has stated that the Trust was
constituted only to manage the affairs of the Trust and the
Trust, at no point of time, was the titleholder of the
property. He has stated that the State Government was
justified in taking action in the matter and same has been
done in accordance with law. 131. In the case of Chairman Madappa (supra), it has
certainly been held that power to manage Trust properties
inherently includes the power to sale only in case the
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -98- properties are sold for the objective of the Trust. 132. In the present case, the properties have not been
sold for objective of the Trust, they have sold with an
oblique and ulterior motive. In case, there was insufficiency
of fund in managing the affairs of the Trust, in all fairness, a
request should have been made to the State of Madhya
Pradesh to provide grant or the Trust should have approach
this Court or should have availed other remedy for issuance
of a direction to the State of Madhya Pradesh to provide
funds. The inaction on the part of the Trust in respect of the
aforesaid issue speaks volume about the conduct of the
trustees and about their oblique and ulterior motive. 133. Much has been argued in respect of so called
permission of the State Government to proceed ahead with
the sale of the properties i.e., letter dated 13.06.1969 of the
Chief Secretary as well as the subsequent amendment in the
trust deed which provides for a clause to sell the property. 134. In the present case a fraud has taken place and the
note-sheet of the Chief Secretary has not no value [see: The
State of Bihar v/s Kripalu Shankar reported in AIR 1987 SC
1554]. It is a settled proposition of law that that fraud
vitiates everything [see: (1991) 1 SCC 354, AIR 1994 SC
853 & (1996) 5 SCC 550]. Fraud vitiates every solemn proceedings and no
right can be claimed by a fraudster on the ground of
technicalities [see: (2012) 11 SCC 574, (2018) 1 SCC 656
& (2019) 14 SCC 449]. 135. This Court has not reproduced the law laid down in the aforesaid cases, however, is reproducing certain
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -99- paragraphs only in respect of the last judgment on the
subject delivered in the case of Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam v/s
Taj Kumar Rajinder Singh reported in (2019) 14 SCC 449.
Paragraphs - 65 to 81 of the aforesaid judgment read as
under:- Moreover, Appeal arising out of 72 awards is still
 pending in the High Court in which Reference Court
 has declined compensation on the aforesaid ground. 66. Reliance has also been placed on the
 observations made in Meher Rusi Dalal v. Union of
 India , (2004) 7 SCC 362, in which this Court has
 dealt with the issue of apportionment of
 compensation for which claim was raised by the
 Union of India, not in the capacity of the owner but
 as a protected tenant. The claim of tenancy was not
 put forth before the LAO, though represented in the
 acquisition proceedings. This Court observed that in
 such a case it could reasonably be inferred that no
 right was being claimed and it ought to have been
 made before the LAO if it had any such claim in
 respect of preexisting right. The LAO was not under
 a duty to make an enquiry. The claim of tenancy at
 the belated stage was an afterthought to frustrate the
 payment. The decision has no application to the
 instant case as the LAO in the awards passed, noted
 the factum of ceiling proceedings as such the effects
 of the same can always be considered. 67. In Ahad Brothers v. State of M.P. , (2005) 1
 SCC 545, this Court observed that question of the
 title of the State over the acquired land, cannot be
 decided under Section 18 of Land Acquisition Act,
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -100- 1894. This Court considered that when an award has
been passed and the appellant was recorded as owner in
the revenue papers, he was entitled to receive
compensation. There is no dispute in the aforesaid
proposition, however, in the instant case facts are
different and a person cannot be permitted to receive the
compensation of vested land in State under the Abolition
Act and when the land had been declared surplus and
compensation paid on wrong entry continued. The same
wrong entry could not have been permitted to be utilised
for award of compensation to a person under the LA
Act . In the instant case, there had been earlier
proceedings which makes it clear that Rajinder Singh
was not entitled to claim compensation under the LA
Act . It is apparent that there was no subsisting right, title
or interest left with Rajinder Singh or his LRs., thus,
they could not be permitted to obtain the compensation. 68. Fraud vitiates every solemn proceeding and no
right can be claimed by a fraudster on the ground of
technicalities. On behalf of appellants, reliance has been
placed on the definition of fraud as defined in the
Black's Law Dictionary, which is as under: 69. Halsbury's Law of England has defined fraud
as follows: 70. In KERR on the Law of Fraud and Mistake,
fraud has been defined thus: 71. In Ram Chandra Singh v. Savitri Devi ,
(2003) 8 SCC 319, wherein it was observed that
fraud vitiates every solemn act. Fraud and justice
never dwell together and it cannot be perpetuated or
saved by the application of any equitable doctrine
including resjudicata. This Court observed as under: 72. In Madhukar Sadbha Shivarkar v. State
of Maharashtra , (2015) 6 SCC 557, this Court
observed that fraud had been played by
showing the records and the orders obtained
unlawfully by the declarant, would be a nullity
in the eye of law though such orders have
attained finality. Following observations were
made: 73. In Jai Narain Parasrampuria v. Pushpa Devi
Saraf , (2006) 7 SCC 756, this Court observed that
fraud vitiates every solemn act. Any order or decree
obtained by practicing fraud is a nullity. This Court
held as under: 74. In State of A.P. v. T. Suryachandra Rao ,
(2005) 6 SCC 149, it was observed that where land
which was offered for surrender had already been
acquired by the State and the same had vested in it.
It was held that merely because an enquiry was
made, the Tribunal was not divested of the power to
correct the error when the respondent had clearly
committed a fraud. Following observations were
made: Jagannath, (1994) 1 SCC 1.) 10. "Fraud" as is
well known vitiates every solemn act. Fraud
and justice never dwell together. Fraud is a
conduct either by letter or words, which
includes the other person or authority to take a
definite determinative stand as a response to the
conduct of the former either by words or letter.
It is also well settled that misrepresentation
itself amounts to fraud. Indeed, innocent
misrepresentation may also give reason to claim
relief against fraud. A fraudulent
misrepresentation is called deceit and consists
in leading a man into damage by willfully or
recklessly causing him to believe and act on
falsehood. It is a fraud in law if a party makes
representations, which he knows to be false,
and injury enures therefrom although the
motive from which the representations
proceeded may not have been bad. An act of
fraud on court is always viewed seriously. A
collusion or conspiracy with a view to deprive
the rights of the others in relation to a property
would render the transaction void ab initio.
Fraud and deception are synonymous. Although
in a given case a deception may not amount to
fraud, fraud is anathema to all equitable
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -105- principles and any affair tainted with fraud
 cannot be perpetuated or saved by the
 application of any equitable doctrine including
 res judicata. (See Ram Chandra Singh v. Savitri
 Devi and Ors. , (2003) 8 SCC 319.)
 *** ***
 *** 13. This aspect of the matter has been
 considered recently by this Court in Roshan
 Deen v. Preeti Lal , ( 2002) 1 SCC 100, Ram
 Preeti Yadav v. U.P. Board of High School and
 Intermediate Education , ( 2003) 8 SCC 311,
 Ram Chandra Singh v. Savitri Devi , ( 2003) 8
 SCC 319 and Ashok Leyland Ltd. v. State of
 T.N. and Anr. , (2004) 3 SCC 1. 14. Suppression of a material document
 would also amount to a fraud on the court, (see Gowrishankar v. Joshi Amba Shankar 54 Family Trust, (1996) 3 SCC 310 and S.P.
 Chengalvaraya Naidu v. Jagannath , (1994) 1
 SCC 1). 15. "Fraud" is a conduct either by letter or
 words, which induces the other person or
 authority to take a definite determinative stand
 as a response to the conduct of the former either
 by words or letter. Although negligence is not
 fraud it can be evidence of fraud; as observed in
 Ram Preeti Yadav, (2003) 8 SCC 311. 16. In Lazarus Estate Ltd. v. Beasley (1956)
 1 QB 702, Lord Denning observed at pages 712
 & 713: (All ER p. 345C) "No judgment of a
 Court, no order of a Minister can be allowed to
 stand if it has been obtained by fraud. Fraud
 unravels everything." In the same judgment,
 Lord Parker LJ observed that fraud "vitiates all
 transactions known to the law of however high
 a degree of solemnity". (emphasis supplied) 75. In A.V. Papayya Sastry v. Govt. of A.P. ,
(2007) 4 SCC 221, this Court as to the effect of
fraud on the judgment or order observed thus: Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -106- *** ***
 *** 38. The matter can be looked at from a
 different angle as well. Suppose, a case is
 decided by a competent Court of Law after
 hearing the parties and an order is passed in
 favour of the applicant/plaintiff which is upheld
 by all the courts including the final Court. Let
 us also think of a case where this Court does not
 dismiss Special Leave Petition but after
 granting leave decides the appeal finally by
 recording reasons. Such order can truly be said
 to be a judgment to which Article 141 of the
 Constitution applies. Likewise, the doctrine of
 merger also gets attracted. All orders passed by
 the courts/authorities below, therefore, merge in
 the judgment of this Court and after such
 judgment, it is not open to any party to the
 judgment to approach any court or authority to
 review, recall or reconsider the order. 39. The
 above principle, however, is subject to
 exception of fraud. Once it is established that
 the order was obtained by a successful party by
 practising or playing fraud, it is vitiated. Such
 order cannot be held legal, valid or in
 consonance with law. It is nonexistent and
 nonest and cannot be allowed to stand. This is
 the fundamental principle of law and needs no
 further elaboration. Therefore, it has been said
 that a judgment, decree or order obtained by
 fraud has to be treated as nullity, whether by the
 court of first instance or by the final court. And
 it has to be treated as nonest by every Court,
 superior or inferior. Supervisory jurisdiction of the court can be
exercised in case of error apparent on the face of the
record, abuse of process and if the issue goes to the
root of the matter. 76. In S.P. Chengalvaraya Naidu v. Jagannath ,
(1994) 1 SCC 1, this Court noted that the issue of
fraud goes to the root of the matter and it exercised
powers under Article 136 to cure the defect. The
Court observed: 77. In K.K. Modi v. K.N. Modi , (1998) 3 SCC
573, it was observed that one of the examples cited
as an abuse of the process of the court is relitigation.
It is an abuse of the process of the court and
contrary to justice and public policy for a party to
relitigate the same issue which has already been
tried and decided earlier against him. 78. Learned counsel for the respondent has
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -108- placed reliance on the decision rendered in Ujjagar
Singh v. Collector, Bhatinda , (1996) 5 SCC 14,
wherein this Court examined the effect of coming
into force of Punjab Land Reforms Act, 1972 and
vesting of the surplus area in the State. In this case,
the area in possession of landlord was declared
surplus under the Pepsu Act , but possession had not
been taken by the State. It was held that area did not
vest finally as the surplus area under the Pepsu Act ,
owing to coming into force of the new Act, the
ceiling area must be determined afresh under the
new Punjab Act. In the instant case, the order was
passed in ceiling matter in the year 1980 and the
adjudication order of Collector (Ceiling) was not
questioned nor the order of remand to declare land
as surplus and then the additional land was declared
surplus in 1993. It was not the case of reopening of
the case. In fact, the land has vested in the State
under the Abolition Act. Thereafter, compensation
has been obtained, obviously once land has vested
in the State, the possession of such land/open land is
deemed to be that of the owner. In any view of the
matter, in the facts and circumstances of the instant
case, compensation could not have been claimed. 79. In State of H.P. v. Harnama, (2004) 13 SCC
534, this Court observed that possession of land was
not taken and the tenant was in occupation of the
land and had acquired ownership rights before the
land was declared surplus as against the landlord. It
was further observed that the land in question had
been notified as surplus and the fact that the original
owner of the land had been paid compensation,
would be of no avail to the State if before the date
of 58 actual vesting nonoccupant tenant in
possession of the land had acquired ownership
rights. It is totally distinguishable and cannot be
applied to the instant case. 80. Learned counsel on behalf of the respondent
has referred to the decision rendered in Madan
Kishore v. Major Sudhir Sewal , (2008) 8 SCC 744,
wherein question arose with respect to entitlement
of subtenant to apply under Section 27(4) . It was
held that the expression in Section 27(4) , such
tenant who cultivates such land, does not entitle a
subtenant either to claim proprietary rights or apply
for the same under Section 27(4) . It was held that he
was not a subtenant. The decision is of no help to
the cause espoused on behalf of LRs. of Rajinder
Singh. In the peculiar facts projected in the case the
principle fraud vitiates is clearly applicable it cannot
be ignored and overlooked under the guise of the
scope of proceedings under Section 18 / 30 of the LA
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -109- Act. 81. In the peculiar facts projected in the case the
 principle fraud vitiates is clearly applicable it cannot
 be ignored and overlooked under the guise of the
 scope of proceedings under Section 18 / 30 of the LA
 Act. In light of the aforesaid judgment, as fraud vitiates
everything and in the present case, trustees have played a
fraud upon the State Government, the sale deeds executed
by the Trust in respect of the properties of the State
Government are null and void and stands vitiated. Hence,
the Collector was justified in passing the impugned order
and the Registrar, Public Trust was also justified in passing
the impugned order. 136. In the humble opinion of this Court, as the property
in question was not the property of the Maharaja, Article
363 of the Constitution of India also comes into play and
the learned Single Judge could not have drafted the trust
deed which has been done by passing the impugned order.
The petitions in fact were not at all maintainable in respect
of the property which came to the share of the State
Government though managed by the Trust, and therefore,
the order passed by the learned Single Judge deserve to be
set aside. 137. Shri S.C. Bagadia, learned senior counsel has
argued before this Court in the connected writ appeal i.e.,
W.A. No.135/2014 that the order passed by the Registrar,
Public Trust and the Collector are bad in law and there is a
process provided under the law for mutation of name of the
State Government. Once this Court has arrived at a
conclusion that a fraud has been played upon in the matter
and the property of the State Government has been sold, the
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -110- orders passed by the Collector and Registrar, Public Trust
do not suffer from any perversity or illegality, hence, they
do not warrant any interference by this Court. 138. Learned counsel appearing for the Trust has also
drawn the attention of this Court towards the judgment
delivered in the case of Marthanda Varma (supra). In the
aforesaid case, the issue was in respect of Shebaitship and
the Hon'ble Supreme Court has held that covenant signed
by the covenanting state cannot be subjected to judicial
scrutiny keeping in view the bar provided under Article 363 of the Constitution of India. 139. In the present case the issue involved is altogether
different. The issue involved is whether the Khasgi Trust
and its trustees can sell the property, which is exclusively
the property of the State of Madhya Pradesh, or not ? The
trustees have certainly sold the property of the State of
Madhya Pradesh and they have violated the terms and
conditions of the trust deed. 140. The most astonishing aspect of the case is that the
learned Single Judge has virtually drafted a fresh trust deed
by passing the impugned judgments. New trustees have
been appointed new-new conditions have been incorporated
in the trust deed and it has been held that the Trust
properties will not be sold with the permission of the State
Government and after holding that the Trust properties will
not be without the permission of the Government it has also
been observed that earlier sales will not be looked into. This
itself is a contrary view and cannot be sustained. The
religious and charitable trust have been established by
erstwhile ruler with a very pious and noble object with an
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -111- aim and object to help a common man and for the welfare
of a common man. 141. Religious and charitable trusts are found to exist, in
some shape or the other, in almost all the civilized countries
and their origin can be traced primarily to the instincts of
piety and benevolence which are implanted in human
nature. 142. Religious and charitable trust means a trust created
for the purposes of religion or charity. Religion is
absolutely a matter of faith with individuals or
communities, and it is not a necessarily theistic. 143. Religious purpose means that the purpose or object
is to secure the spiritual well being of a person or persons
according to the tenets of the particular religion in which he
/ they believe in. 144. Charity means benevolence and in its wide and
popular sense it comprehends all forms of benefit, physical,
intellectual, moral, ethical or religious, bestowed upon
persons who are in need of them. 145. In Halsburg's Laws of England (Halsburg, 2nd
Addition, Volume - 33, Page - 87), a trust has been defined
as a confidence reposed in a person with respect to property
of which he has possession or over which he can exercise
power, to the intent that he may hold the property or
exercise the power for the Benefit of some other person or
object. 146. Hindu Religions and Charitable acts have been from
the earliest time classified under two heads, viz., Istha and
Purtta. These two words are often used conjointly, and they
are as old as Rigveda. Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -112- 147. Istha means Vedic sacrifices, and rites and gifts in
connection with the same; Purtta on the other hand means
and signifies other pious and charitable acts which are
unconnected with any Strouta or Vedic Sacrifice. 148. A trust has to function for the welfare of the society
at large. In the ancient period wells, ponds, lakes, ghats,
Dharamshala were established as public trust and
performance of trust during ancient period is ensured by the
following texts:- 149. To protect the public trust property various
safeguards have been provided under the statutory
provisions and it is the divine and pious duty of a trustee to
ensure that the trust property is kept safe, intact and useful
for the generations to come. In the present case, as the State
of Madhya Pradesh is the titleholder of the property, it is the
duty of the State to protect and preserve the property 150. In light of the aforesaid, this Court is of the
considered opinion that the orders passed by the learned
Single Judge dated 28.11.2013 in W.P. No.11618/2012 and
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -113- 03.12.2013 in W.P. No.5372/2010, which are contrary to
the constitutional mandate, as provided under Article 363 of
the Constitution of India, deserve to be quashed and are
accordingly, quashed. 151. Shri Saxena, learned Senior Counsel has argued
before this Court that doctrine of Cy près is applicable
present case. Sheridan and Delany,
 The Cy près Doctrine (1959)." 152. From early times the religious and charitable
Institutions in the country came under the protection of the
ruling authority. The Smriti writers make it a duty on the
part of the King to uphold the customs and usages of the
land unless they are contradictory to revelation; and the
Mitakshara, in commenting upon a passage of Yajnavalkya
relating to the enforcement of customs, expressly refers to
customs in connection with management of temples [See:
Ghar Pure's Mitakshara, P.329]. The duty of protecting
endowments is one of the primary duties of the King as
mentioned in Shukraniti and other treaties. [G. Iyer's Law of
Endowments, 2nd Edition, P.23-25]. 153. In the case of Rajah Muttu Ramalinga Setupati Vs.
Perinayagum Pillai, L.R.1, I.A. 209 at 233, it was observed
by the Privy Council that there could be little doubt that this
Superintending authority over temples and religious
endowments was exercised by the old rulers. 154. Keeping in view the doctrine of Cy près, earlier it
was a duty of the erstwhile ruler to protect the property and
after the Covenant was signed, as the property mentioned in
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -114- the trust deed became absolute property of the State of
Madhya Pradesh, it is the duty of the State of Madhya
Pradesh to protect and preserve all religious and charitable
institutions and other properties which finds place in the
Trust Deed, especially in light of the fact that title lies with
the State of Madhya Pradesh, keeping in view the intention
of the donor who has created the charities for public at
large. 155. It has been vehemently argued on behalf of the Trust
and the Trustees that entire action was initiated in the matter
only because the then Member of Parliament from Indore
Mrs. Sumitra Mahajan wrote a letter to the Chief Minister.
This Court really appreciates the concern shown by
Member of Parliament in the matter. In fact she was the one
who has brought it to the notice of the Government in order
to save the Trust property, which includes 12000 acres of
land including Temples, Ghats, Dharamshalas, Rest Houses,
etc. 156. On the basis of letter written by the Member of
Parliament, the Chief Secretary / Chief Minister directed an
inquiry in the matter and the then Principal Secretary to the
Chief Minister Mr. Manoj Kumar Shrivastava, IAS
submitted a very detail and exhaustive report on
02/12/2012. The report is on record and it has been filed by
Mr. Vijay Pal Singh, Intervener in Writ Petition
No.135/2014. The report refers to Covenant dated
22/04/1948 and notification dated 07/05/1949 on account of
which the Khasgi properties and the income from the
Khasgi Trust vested in the State of Madhya Bharat. The
report further reflects that the State of Madhya Pradesh
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -115- came into existence w.e.f. 01/11/1956 and the Khasgi
properties thereafter, vested in the State of Madhya Pradesh.
This fact has also been admitted on 27/06/1962. 157. The then Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister
after taking into account the Covenant and the case law on
the subject has strongly recommended for preservation and
protection of Khasgi properties and thereafter, action was
taken by the Collector, Indore in the matter. 158. This Court is not reproducing the entire report as the
Covenants, Trust Deeds and the notification issued by the
Government of India have already been reproduced in
earlier paragraphs. Thus, it is wrong on the part of the
respondent to say that the mechanical exercise was
undertaken by the Collector based upon letter of Member of
Parliament. With due application of mind, the State
Government through Collector, Indore keeping in view the
covenant, trust deed and the statutory provisions has taken
action in the matter. 159. In the considered opinion of this Court, this Court
does not have the power to draft the Trust Deed nor is
having the power to enact the statute in respect of trust in
question. However, as the properties which are under the
ownership of State of Madhya Pradesh have been sold by
the Trust / Trustees, a Committee deserves to be constituted
to ensure that the trust properties as per the schedule
appended with the original trust deed are preserved,
maintained and kept intact for the future generations to
come. 160. The Committee so constituted shall inquire in
respect of the properties sold by the Trust and shall take all
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -116- possible steps to recover and retrieve any property or fund
of the property, which have been sold or have been in
unauthorized occupation or misappropriated. For doing the
aforesaid task, the State of Madhya Pradesh shall incur all
the expenditures, in case there is paucity of fund in the
accounts of the trust, especially in light of the fact that it is
the State of Madhya Pradesh, who is having title over all
properties. 161. The following Committee is constituted for the
aforesaid work comprising of :- 162. In the connected writ petition i.e. W.P.
No.11234/2020, which is a Public Interest Litigation, a
prayer has been made for issuance of an appropriate writ,
order or directing directing a CBI inquiry. So far as the
prayer with regard to directions for CBI inquiry is
concerned, this Court is of the considered opinion that no
such directions are required. The allegation of
misappropriation of Government properties and its disposal
to favour someone and to cause loss to Public Exchequer, if
at all, can very well be examined by Economic
Investigation Wing of the State of Madhya Pradesh and
accordingly, it is directed that the said Wing will thoroughly
examine the matter and if it finds any criminality into the
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -117- actions of any authority, it is expected that appropriate
action should be taken by the said Wing. Hence, no positive
direction to register a First Information Report is required. Resultantly, the Economic Offences Wing shall
examine the matter and shall be free to proceed ahead in
accordance with law. 163. The State of Madhya Pradesh is directed to take all
possible steps to preserve the cultural heritage including the
Ghats, Temples, Dharamshalas, which find place in the
Trust property, being the titleholder of the property in
question. The State of Madhya Pradesh shall also take
appropriate action in accordance with law against all those
persons, who have allegedly illegally sold the Trust's
property from time to time. 164. In W.P. No.11234/2020, the Union of India is
already a party and Shri Milind Phadke has also been heard
in the matter before delivering the judgment. He has also
stated that the properties in question, on account of the
covenant and the statutory notifications issued from time to
time, are the exclusive properties of the State of Madhya
Pradesh. 165. This Court on 23.04.2014 has directed the parties to
maintain status quo and it has been informed by learned
counsel for the State of Madhya Pradesh that some
construction has taken place by the private parties. 166. Resultantly, the State of Madhya Pradesh is directed
to take appropriate action in respect of the construction
which has taken place over the Khasgi properties and shall
restore it to its original position and the entire expenditure
shall be borne by the State of Madhya Pradesh through
 Writ Appeal Nos.92/2014, 135/2014
 & Writ Petition No.11234/2020 -118- Commissioner, Indore. The Collector, Haridwar shall assist
the Divisional Commissioner, Indore in the matter and the
Divisional Commissioner, Indore shall ensure that Kusha
Ghat as well as other properties are again, which are meant
for public charities are made available to public at large.
The aforesaid direction is not only in respect of present
property but in respect of other properties also. The State of
Madhya Pradesh shall ensure by taking appropriate steps in
accordance with law that no further sale takes place in
respect of such properties and they shall maintain the
properties for the generations to come keeping in view their
historic importance. The Collector, Indore shall be free to
take action in accordance with law pursuant to the order
passed by him dated 05.11.2012 and the Registrar shall also
be free to take appropriate action in accordance with law
pursuant to the order passed by him dated 30.11.2012. With the aforesaid, the present Writ Appeal stands
allowed and connected Writ Appeal also stands allowed. As this Court has already allowed both the writ
appeals, Writ Petition No.11234/2020 stands disposed of
and the order passed in the writ appeals shall govern the
writ petition also. Certified copy, as per rules.