Petitioner has filed this petition under Section 482 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure seeking quashing of charge sheet filed by the respondents
in relation to a case registered against him vide Crime No. 535/2022 at Police
Station Aishbag, District Bhopal for the offence punishable under Sections
376 , 376(2)(n) and 506 of the Indian Penal Code. 2. Vide Order dated 23.08.2024, further proceeding of the trial was stayed
by the Court and therefore, at the request of learned counsel for the parties,
the matter is being decided finally. 3. After hearing rival submission of the counsel for the parties and
perusal of record, for just and proper adjudication of the case, it is necessary
to mention the relevant facts of the case, which in nutshell are as under:- 4. On 13.11.2022, the complainant-Ritu Vishwakarma, submitted a
written complaint to the police of Police Station Aishbag, District Bhopal
mentioning therein that she is aged about 33 years, resident of District Betul,
presently staying at Bhopal and doing preparation to participate in the
competitive examination. 5. As per the written complainant, the complainant got married in the
year 2009 with one Manoj Vishwakarma as per family customs. The said
Manoj Vishwakarma was a resident of Chhindwara, but for some reasons the
said marriage was dissolved and divorce took place in the year 2015. 6. After divorce, the complainant came to Bhopal for further studies.
Thereafter, in the year 2020 during the period of lock-down because of the
pandemic COVID-19, the complainant came in contact with the present
petitioner through a social media app i.e. Tinder and thereafter they became
friends and used to talk to each other over the mobile. The complainant also
informed the petitioner about her divorce and also the fact that she was elder
than him but the petitioner said that the age did not matter and he wanted to
meet her. As per the complainant, the petitioner used to say that he loved her
and wanted to marry her. Finally, on 27th September, 2020, the petitioner
came to the house of complainant and asked her to marry him, but even after 3 refusal by the complainant, the petitioner had forcefully developed physical
relation with her and even thereafter the petitioner was continuously
developing physical relation with the complainant. In the month of October,
2020, the petitioner went to Mumbai as he got a job there and thereafter he
called the complainant also to Mumbai in the month of November, 2020.
Thereafter, the complainant and the petitioner were living in live-in-relation
as a husband and wife. In the meantime, the complainant was repeatedly
asking the petitioner to marry her whereupon the petitioner promised that first
he will make his parents and other family members understand and then only
he will marry her. After that, in the month of January, 2022, the complainant
returned back to Bhopal from Mumbai and started living in her old rented
house. The petitioner used to visit the house of the complainant and often
make physical relation with her and whenever the complainant asked the
petitioner about solemnizing the marriage, he used to avoid the same. 7. On 09.11.2022, when the complainant asked the petitioner about
marriage, he flatly refused to marry. Thereafter, when the complainant told
the petitioner that she will make a report against him to the police, he
threatened her that if any complaint is made against him, he would kill her
and her family members. Thereafter, at the last, the complainant made a
written complaint to the police alleging that by giving false promise of
marriage the petitioner had developed physical relation with her and as such
action be taken against the petitioner, as a result thereof, the police has
registered a crime against the petitioner vide Crime No. 535/2022 for the
offence punishable under Sections 376 , 376(2)(n) and 506 of the Indian Penal
Code. 8. Learned counsel for the petitioner is challenging the charge sheet on
the ground that even if the contents of FIR are considered to be true on their
face value even then no case under Section 376 of IPC is made out against
the petitioner because it is a case of consensual relationship. It is claimed that
as per the FIR, the physical relation between the petitioner and complainant
was first developed on 27th September, 2020 whereas the offence got
registered after two years i.e. on 13.11.2022 of developing physical relation.
He has submitted that prosecutrix is aged about 33 years; she came in contact
with the petitioner through a social media app and used to live with the
petitioner in live-in-relation as a husband and wife which is a clear sign of
consensual relationship. As per the learned counsel, the prosecutrix is major
and an educated divorced lady and is mentally sound to take decision for her
future prospects and the decision for developing the physical relation with the
petitioner cannot be said to be a decision taken only after the promise of
marriage by the petitioner and if it is considered to be true then thereafter the
complainant should not have done so and that too continuously for a period
of two years. The prosecutrix herself has admitted that she was living with
the petitioner as his wife in live-in-relation. It clearly indicates that the
prosecutrix on her own had decided to develop such relationship with the
petitioner because she was fully aware of the consequence of her own action,
therefore, it is not proper to say that the petitioner has defrauded the
prosecutrix and compelled her to surrender before him or to develop physical
relation and it was a promise made by him to the prosecutrix that he will
marry her. He has submitted that the prosecutrix was a consenting party and
was often compelling the petitioner to marry her and on refusing to do so, she 5 has made a false complaint against him and as such the petitioner has been
falsely implicated. 9. Learned counsel for the petitioner has placed reliance upon the
decision rendered in the case of Shiv Pratap Singh Rana vs. State of M.P.
and Another reported in (2024) SCC OnLine SC 1653 and also upon an
order passed by the High Court in the case of Nageshwar Prasad Jaisal vs.
State of M.P. & Another - MCRC No. 5754/2022 decided on 2nd of July,
2022. 10. Learned counsel for the complainant has opposed the submission made
by the learned counsel for the petitioner and submitted that the power under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. has to be exercised sparingly and the Court exercising
such power cannot conduct a mini trial and cannot take a decision at the stage
of entertaining a petition whether offence of Section 376 is made out or not.
He has submitted that during the course of trial the prosecutrix will prove that
the relationship between them was not consensual and therefore, relying upon
a decision of the High Court rendered in the case of Lavleen Mishra vs. The
State of M.P. - MCRC No. 25766/2022 he has submitted that this petition
deserves to be dismissed. 11. I have heard the arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the
parties and on the basis of the said arguments, now this Court has to
adjudicate as to whether the petitioner is an accused of offence under Section
376 of IPC or not. 12. It is undisputed that in the instant case the FIR was lodged after two
years of the physical relation between the petitioner and prosecutrix. The
prosecutrix is aged about 33 years; she is a divorcee; she came in contact with 6 the petitioner through a social media app i.e. Tinder and she used to live with
the petitioner in live-in-relation as his wife, which clearly reveals that the said
relationship was a consensual relationship. The prosecutrix is major and an
educated lady. She is mentally sound to take decision for her future prospects
and her decision for developing the physical relation with the petitioner
cannot be said to be a decision taken only after the promise of marriage by
the petitioner and even if it is considered to be true then thereafter the
complainant should not have done so and that too continuously for a period
of two years. As per the FIR, the prosecutrix herself has admitted that she was
living with the petitioner as his wife in live-in-relation. It clearly proves that
the prosecutrix of her own had decided to develop such relationship with the
petitioner because she was fully aware of the consequence of her own action,
therefore, it cannot be said that the petitioner has defrauded her and
compelled her to surrender before him or to develop physical relation and it
was a promise made by him to the prosecutrix that he will marry her. 13. However, to reach to a concrete decision in the matter, it would be
appropriate to take note of the view taken and the law laid down by the
Supreme Court and also by the High Court on such issue in the cases referred
by both the parties, which are as under: 14. The Supreme Court in case of Shiv Pratap Singh Rana (supra)
considering the facts and circumstances of the case observed as under:- 16. In response to a query of the Court, the learned counsel
for the State i.e. Respondent 1 submitted on instructions that
neither the photographs nor the mobile phone of the appellant
have been seized. He also admits that the affidavit dated 28-
9-2016 and the stamp paper dated 7-7-2017 have also not
been seized. No jewellery as alleged by the prosecutrix to
have been given to the appellant by her has been recovered or
seized from the appellant. 17. Submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties
have received the due consideration of the Court. 18. At the outset, let us examine the statement of the
prosecutrix made before the police. In her statement under
Section 161CrPC, the prosecutrix stated that the appellant
was not only a friend of her younger brother Mukul Rana but
also a distant brother of her brother-in-law Shailendra Rana.
The appellant used to run a competition coaching centre at 10 Dabra, which the prosecutrix used to attend along with her
brother Mukul during the years 2015 and 2016. On the
recommendation of the appellant, the prosecutrix got a job of
receptionist in a company. In the year 2016, the appellant
disclosed his affection towards the prosecutrix which was
turned down by her on the ground that he was not only
younger to her but also friend of her younger brother Mukul.
However, they became friends. She stated that on one
Monday in the month of Savan of that year, the appellant
took her to a forest outside Kitore Village ahead of Gijorra
where there was a temple of Doodhkho Shankar Ji. There she
took bath in the waterfall. Later on, the appellant showed her
the photographs which he had taken while she was changing
her clothes in the temple. Though the prosecutrix told the
appellant to delete the photographs, he did not do so.
Thereafter, he started blackmailing her by showing her the
photographs because of which the prosecutrix stated that she
had left the coaching centre and the job. Notwithstanding the
same, the appellant continued to threaten her by saying that
the photographs would be made viral and that those would be
shown to her father. It was because of such threatening that
she went with the appellant by train from Dabra to Gwalior.
On reaching Gwalior, he took her to one place at Anoopam
Nagar where he forcefully made physical relationship with
her. The place was taken on rent by a friend of the appellant
Nitin Nagariya. On 28-9-2016, the appellant obtained a stamp
paper where he put his as well as the signature of the
prosecutrix. It was mentioned in the stamp paper that he
would support her throughout her life. 19. According to the prosecutrix, she told the appellant many
a times to marry her but on one pretext or the other, he
evaded the proposal. Later on, he said that he would marry
her after the marriage of his brother Jaideep. The prosecutrix
stated that she had given the appellant money on several
occasions after withdrawing from bank. On 16-6-2017, the
prosecutrix gave the appellant a cheque of Rs 10,000 of her
mother. The appellant also stated that he had left the coaching
centre and wanted to do business of his own and then his
family members would be ready for marriage. On 7-7-2018,
the appellant had given the prosecutrix one e-stamp in his
name wherein it was mentioned that he would marry her and
on his assurance on 22-11-2017, the prosecutrix took the
pendant of the mangalsootra of her sister and gave it to the
appellant. She went with the appellant to the bank where he
mortgaged the pendant of the mangalsootra and took loan of 11 Rs 8000. She further helped him in obtaining loan of Rs
5000. Later on, when she broached the topic of marriage
since marriage of his brother had taken place on 18-4-2018,
the appellant told the prosecutrix that his brother had received
Rs 15 lakhs in marriage; therefore, if she paid Rs 15 lakhs, he
would marry her. However, when her family members talked
with the family members of the appellant at his house, they
refused. Though in the meeting of relatives, the appellant was
ordered to return the jewellery and money to the prosecutrix
and also to marry her, he refused to do so. It was thereafter
that she lodged the FIR on 5-9-2018. 20. Let us now examine the statement of the prosecutrix
dated 12-9-2018 made under Section 164CrPC. 21. In her statement recorded under Section 164CrPC, the
prosecutrix stated that the incident was of the year 2016, in
the month of Savan. However, as two years had elapsed, she
could not remember the date. She used to go to coaching
class along with the appellant, who was a distant brother of
her jijaji. The coaching class used to be held in the house of
cousin brother of the appellant. One day, the appellant told
the prosecutrix that a post of receptionist was vacant in the
office in which she could work. Thereafter, he expressed his
affection towards her which she turned down on the ground
that the appellant was the friend of her younger brother and
was also younger to her. After a few days, in the month of
Savan, the appellant took the prosecutrix to a temple near his
village where she took bath under a waterfall. The appellant
took her photographs while the prosecutrix was bathing. After
5/6 days, when she went to the coaching class, the appellant
showed her the photographs. He also expressed his desire of
marrying her but the prosecutrix refused such proposal of the
appellant. At that time, the appellant told her that if she
continued to refuse his proposal, he would send the
photographs to her father. 22. After a few days, the appellant took her to Anupam Nagar
of Gwalior, where his friend Nitin was residing in a rented
premise. There the appellant forced himself upon the
prosecutrix and when she refused, then he made physical
relation with her without her consent. On her request to delete
the photographs, the appellant told her that he would do so
only if she agreed to marry him. Thereafter, he dropped the
prosecutrix at Dabra and continued with the physical
relationship with her. On 28-9-2016, the appellant gave a
stamp paper to the prosecutrix stating that he would support 12 her throughout her life. On 16-6-2017, the appellant
demanded money from the prosecutrix, pursuant to which she
gave him a cheque of her mother amounting to Rs 10,000.
Again on 7-7-2017, the appellant gave a stamp paper to the
prosecutrix seeking her consent for marriage. Next when he
asked for more money, the prosecutrix gave him jewellery of
her mother and sister as she was not having any money. The
appellant mortgaged the jewellery in a bank against which he
withdrew some money. Thereafter, she stated that when she
withdrew money from the bank to meet the demands of the
appellant, her family members came to know about the
relationship. 23. The appellant told her before the marriage of his elder
brother in April 2018, that her family members should not
come to his place till the marriage of his brother was over.
After the marriage was over, he told her that his brother had
received Rs 15 lakhs in marriage and asked her whether her
family members would be in a position to furnish such an
amount. After the marriage of his brother, family members of
the prosecutrix went to the house of the appellant in the
month of June 2018 but found his family members to be
evasive on the question of marriage. Though people of the
community told the appellant and his family members to
return the jewellery and also to marry the prosecutrix, they
did not do so. Thereafter, the appellant switched off his
mobile phone and disappeared from Dabra. The brother of
the appellant told the prosecutrix that if she complained
before the police, she would be killed and that her brother
would be implicated in a false case. It was thereafter that she
lodged the FIR on 5-9-2018. 24. From a perusal and comparison of the two statements of
the prosecutrix, one before the police under Section 161CrPC
and the other under Section 164CrPC, that too recorded
within a span of 24 hours, what is noticeable is that not only
are the statements contradictory in themselves, those are
contradictory to each other as well. The fact that the appellant
had lodged the FIR two years after the alleged incident is
itself suggestive of the consensual nature of the relationship
which had gone sour. It is inconceivable that the prosecutrix,
who was about 22 years of age at the time of the alleged
incident, would accompany the appellant to a temple if she
was being threatened by the appellant. She was a major and,
therefore, fully conscious of the consequences of her own
actions. It is not the case of the prosecutrix that the appellant
had forced her to have bath under the waterfall and thereafter 13 took her photographs. The act of the prosecutrix having bath
under the waterfall and changing her clothes thereafter in the
company of the appellant virtually rules out any threat or
coercion by the appellant on the prosecutrix. 25. In the course of the hearing, the Bench had put a pointed
query to the learned counsel for the State as to whether the
mobile phone of the appellant or the photographs allegedly
taken by the appellant of the prosecutrix while she was
bathing and changing clothes were recovered to which the
reply on instructions was that those were neither recovered
nor seized. Further, the stamp paper dated 28-9-2016 as well
as the cheque dated 16-6-2017 have not been seized. The
jewellery allegedly given by the prosecutrix to the appellant
has also not been seized. The stamp paper dated 7-7-2017 has
not been seized. In the absence of such materials, it would be
virtually impossible for the prosecution to prove the charges
of rape and intimidation against the appellant. 26. We have carefully gone through the definition of "rape"
provided under Section 375IPC. We have also gone through
the provisions of Section 376(2)(n) IPC, which deals with the
offence of rape committed repeatedly on the same woman.
Section 375IPC defines "rape" by a man if he does any of the
acts in terms of clauses (a) to (d) under the seven descriptions
mentioned therein. As per the second description, a man
commits rape if he does any of the acts as mentioned in
clauses (a) to (d) without the consent of the woman. Consent
has been defined in Explanation 2 to mean an unequivocal
voluntary agreement when the woman by words, gestures or
any form of verbal or non-verbal communication,
communicates willingness to participate in the specific sexual
act. However, the proviso thereto clarifies that a woman who
does not physically resist to the act of penetration shall not by
the reason only of that fact, be regarded as consenting to the
sexual activity. 27. Having regard to the above and in the overall conspectus
of the case, we are of the view that the physical relationship
between the prosecutrix and the appellant cannot be said to
be against her will and without her consent. On the basis of
the available materials, no case of rape or of criminal
intimidation is made out. 28. The learned counsel for the respondents had placed
considerable reliance on the provisions of Section 90IPC,
particularly on the expression "under a misconception of
fact". Section 90IPC reads thus: This extract is taken from Shiv Pratap Singh Rana v. State of
M.P. , (2024) 8 SCC 313 : 2024 SCC OnLine SC 1653 at page 322 29. Section 90IPC says that a consent is not such a consent as
it is intended by any section of IPC , if the consent is given by
a person under the fear of injury or under a misconception of
fact. 30. In Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar v. State of Maharashtra
[Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar v. State of Maharashtra, (2019)
18 SCC 191 : (2020) 3 SCC (Cri) 672] , this Court after
examining Section 90IPC held as follows : (SCC p. 198, para 17)
"17. Thus, Section 90 though does not define "consent", but
describes what is not "consent". Consent may be express or
implied, coerced or misguided, obtained willingly or through
deceit. If the consent is given by the complainant under
misconception of fact, it is vitiated. Consent for the purpose
of Section 375 requires voluntary participation not only after
the exercise of intelligence based on the knowledge of the
significance and moral quality of the act, but also after having
fully exercised the choice between resistance and assent. Whether there was any consent or not is to be ascertained
only on a careful study of all relevant circumstances." 31. This Court also examined the interplay between Section
375IPC and Section 90IPC in the context of consent in
Pramod Suryabhan Pawar v. State of Maharashtra [Pramod
Suryabhan Pawar v. State of Maharashtra, (2019) 9 SCC
608 : (2019) 3 SCC (Cri) 903] , and held that consent with
respect to Section 375IPC involves an active understanding
of the circumstances, actions and consequences of the
proposed act. An individual who makes a reasoned choice to
act after evaluating various alternative actions (or inaction) as
well as the various possible consequences flowing from such
action (or inaction), consents to such action. After
deliberating upon the various case laws, this Court summed
up the legal position as under : (SCC p. 620, para 18)
"18. To summarise the legal position that emerges from the
above cases, the "consent" of a woman with respect to Section 375 must involve an active and reasoned deliberation
towards the proposed act. To establish whether the "consent"
was vitiated by a "misconception of fact" arising out of a
promise to marry, two propositions must be established. The
promise of marriage must have been a false promise, given in
bad faith and with no intention of being adhered to at the time
it was given. The false promise itself must be of immediate
relevance, or bear a direct nexus to the woman's decision to
engage in the sexual act." 32. The learned counsel for the respondents had relied
heavily on the expression "misconception of fact". However,
according to us, there is no misconception of fact here. Right
from the inception, it is the case of the prosecution that while
the appellant was insisting on having a relationship with the
prosecutrix, the later had turned down the same on the ground
that the appellant was the friend of her younger brother and a
distant relative of her jijaji. That apart, according to the
prosecutrix, the appellant was younger to her. Nonetheless,
the prosecutrix had accompanied the appellant to a temple,
where she had voluntarily taken bath under a waterfall. Her
allegation that the appellant had surreptitiously taken
photographs of her while she was bathing and later on
changing clothes and was blackmailing her with such
photographs remain unfounded in the absence of seizure of
such photographs or the mobile phone on which such
photographs were taken by the appellant. If, indeed, she was
under some kind of threat from the appellant, it defies any 16 logic, when the prosecutrix accompanied the appellant to
Gwalior from Dabra, a journey which they had made together
by train. On reaching Gwalior, she accompanied the appellant
on a scooter to a rented premises at Anupam Nagar, where
she alleged that the appellant had forced himself upon her.
But she did not raise any alarm or hue and cry at any point of
time. Rather, she returned back to Dabra along with the
appellant. The relationship did not terminate there. It
continued even thereafter. It is the case of the prosecutrix
herself that at one point of time the family members of the
two had met to discuss about their marriage but nothing final
could be reached regarding their marriage. It was only
thereafter that the FIR was lodged. 33. As already pointed out above, neither the affidavit nor
stamp papers have been recovered or seized by the police; so
also the jewellery. The alleged cheque of the prosecutrix's
mother given to the appellant or the bank statement to
indicate transfer of such money have not been gathered by
the police. In the absence of such materials, the entire
substratum of the prosecutrix's case collapses. Thus, there is
hardly any possibility of conviction of the appellant. As a
matter of fact, it is not even a case which can stand trial. It
appears to be a case of a consensual relationship which had
gone sour leading to lodging of FIR. In the circumstances, the
Court is of the view that compelling the appellant to face the
criminal trial on these materials would be nothing but an
abuse of the process of the court, result of the trial being a
foregone conclusion. 34. From the factual matrix of the case, the following
relevant features can be culled out: 35. That being the position and having regard to the facts and
circumstances of the case, we are of the view that it would be
in the interest of justice if the proceedings are terminated at
this stage itself. Consequently, impugned order of the High
Court dated 3-10-2019 [ Shivpratap Singh Rana v. State of 17 M.P. , 2019 SCC OnLine MP 5836] and the order of the
 Sessions Judge dated 24-4-2019 are hereby set aside and
 quashed. 36. Resultantly, proceedings in Sessions Trial No. 505 of
 2018, pending before the 10th Additional Sessions Judge,
 Gwalior, are hereby quashed." 15. In the said case, the Supreme Court has finally observed that in the
existing circumstances it is difficult to say that the prosecutrix was not a
consenting party and relationship of the petitioner and the prosecutrix was not
consensual and finally terminated the proceedings initiated in pursuance to
the crime registered. 16. This Court, in case of Nageshwar Prasad Jaisal (supra) relying upon
several judgments of the Supreme Court has quashed the FIR on the ground
that it is not proper to initiate prosecution against the petitioner who came in
relation with the prosecutrix and they were in an affair for a long period but
finally for some reasons their relationship could not be converted into
marriage. The Court observed that in the young age when boys and girls are
attracted towards each other and they flow in emotions and believe that they
love each other, normally they carry impression that their relationship will
naturally lead to marriage, but sometimes it fails and their relationship breaks
down on account of non-solemnizing the marriage, but sometimes the
relationship gets a correct shape, but it does not give any cause of action for
initiation of criminal prosecution and physical relation developed out of the
said relationship is not an offence of rape, which is defined in Section 375 of
IPC. This Court in the said case observed as under: In re Pramod Suryabhan Pawar (supra), the Supreme Court
dealing with the factual aspect of the matter interpreted as to how it
is determined that the consent has been obtained under
misconception of fact and observed as under: Similar observations were made by this Court in Deepak Gulati
 v. State of Haryana [Deepak Gulati v. State of Haryana, (2013) 7
 SCC 675 : (2013) 3 SCC (Cri) 660] (Deepak Gulati) : (SCC p.
 682, para 21). Thereafter, in re Maheshwar Tigga (supra) again the Supreme
Court dealing with the facts of the case of Section 376 of IPC has
reiterated as to how it is determined that the consent given by the
prosecutrix is under misconception of fact and observed as under:- 17. This Court recently in Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar v. State
 of Maharashtra [Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar v. State of 20 Maharashtra, (2019) 18 SCC 191 : (2020) 3 SCC (Cri) 672 : In re Shivashankar @ Shiv (supra), the Supreme Court observed
as under:- Further in re Dr. Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sona (supra),
considering the existing facts and circumstances of the case, which
are almost similar to the case in hand, observed as under: On this aspect also, the observations of this Court in Uday case
 [ Uday v. State of Karnataka , (2003) 4 SCC 46 : 2003 SCC (Cri)
 775] at para 24 come to the aid of the appellant." In re Deepak Gulati (supra), the Supreme Court observed as
under:- In re Sonu @ Subhash Kumar (supra), the Supreme Court
observed as under: This Court in re Madhur Baghrecha (supra) relying upon
several judgments of the Supreme Court also considered the
definition of rape provided under Section 375 of IPC and also the
definition of consent known to be given under fear or
misconception provided under Section 90 of IPC. The relevant
paragraph of the judgment reads thus:- ***
 under the circumstances falling under any of the following
 seven descriptions-- Firstly.-- Secondly.--Without her consent. ***
 Explanation 2.--Consent means an unequivocal voluntary
 agreement when the woman by words, gestures or any form of
 verbal or non-verbal communication, communicates willingness
 to participate in the specific sexual act: 10. Where a woman does not "consent" to the sexual acts
described in the main body of Section 375 , the offence of rape
has occurred. While Section 90 does not define the term
"consent", a "consent" based on a "misconception of fact" is not
consent in the eye of the law. 11. The primary contention advanced by the complainant is that
the appellant engaged in sexual relations with her on the false
promise of marrying her, and therefore her "consent", being
premised on a "misconception of fact" (the promise to marry),
stands vitiated. 12. This Court has repeatedly held that consent with respect to Section 375 IPC involves an active understanding of the
circumstances, actions and consequences of the proposed act.
An individual who makes a reasoned choice to act after
evaluating various alternative actions (or inaction) as well as the
various possible consequences flowing from such action or
inaction, consents to such action. In Dhruvaram Sonar
[Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar v. State of Maharashtra , (2019) 18
SCC 191 : 2018 SCC OnLine SC 3100] which was a case
involving the invoking of the jurisdiction under Section 482 ,
this Court observed : (SCC para 15)
"15. ... An inference as to consent can be drawn if only based
on evidence or probabilities of the case. "Consent" is also stated
to be an act of reason coupled with deliberation. It denotes an
active will in mind of a person to permit the doing of the act
complained of." This understanding was also emphasised in the decision of this
Court in Kaini Rajan v. State of Kerala [Kaini Rajan v. State of
Kerala, (2013) 9 SCC 113 : (2013) 3 SCC (Cri) 858] : (SCC p.
118, para 12)
"12. ... "Consent", for the purpose of Section 375 , requires
voluntary participation not only after the exercise of intelligence
based on the knowledge of the significance of the moral quality
of the act but after having fully exercised the choice between
resistance and assent. Whether there was consent or not, is to be
ascertained only on a careful study of all relevant
circumstances." 13. This understanding of consent has also been set out in
Explanation 2 of Section 375 (reproduced above). Section 3(1)
(w) of the SC/ST Act also incorporates this concept of consent: 14. In the present case, the "misconception of fact" alleged by
the complainant is the appellant's promise to marry her.
Specifically in the context of a promise to marry, this Court has
observed that there is a distinction between a false promise
given on the understanding by the maker that it will be broken,
and the breach of a promise which is made in good faith but
subsequently not fulfilled. In Anurag Soni v. State of
Chhattisgarh [Anurag Soni v. State of Chhattisgarh, (2019) 13
SCC 1 : 2019 SCC OnLine SC 509] , this Court held : (SCC
para 12)
"12. The sum and substance of the aforesaid decisions would be
that if it is established and proved that from the inception the
accused who gave the promise to the prosecutrix to marry, did
not have any intention to marry and the prosecutrix gave the
consent for sexual intercourse on such an assurance by the
accused that he would marry her, such a consent can be said to
be a consent obtained on a misconception of fact as per Section
90 IPC and, in such a case, such a consent would not excuse the
offender and such an offender can be said to have committed the
rape as defined under Sections 375 IPC and can be convicted for
the offence under Section 376 IPC." Similar observations were made by this Court in Deepak Gulati
v. State of Haryana [Deepak Gulati v. State of Haryana, (2013) 7
SCC 675 : (2013) 3 SCC (Cri) 660] (Deepak Gulati) : (SCC p.
682, para 21)
"21. ... There is a distinction between the mere breach of a
promise, and not fulfilling a false promise. Thus, the court must
examine whether there was made, at an early stage a false
promise of marriage by the accused;" 16. Where the promise to marry is false and the intention of the
maker at the time of making the promise itself was not to abide
by it but to deceive the woman to convince her to engage in
sexual relations, there is a "misconception of fact" that vitiates
the woman's "consent". On the other hand, a breach of a 26 promise cannot be said to be a false promise. To establish a false
promise, the maker of the promise should have had no intention
of upholding his word at the time of giving it. The "consent" of
a woman under Section 375 is vitiated on the ground of a
"misconception of fact" where such misconception was the
basis for her choosing to engage in the said act. In Deepak
Gulati [Deepak Gulati v. State of Haryana , (2013) 7 SCC 675 : *** 24. Hence, it is evident that there must be adequate evidence to
show that at the relevant time i.e. at the initial stage itself, the
accused had no intention whatsoever, of keeping his promise to
marry the victim. There may, of course, be circumstances, when
a person having the best of intentions is unable to marry the
victim owing to various unavoidable circumstances. The "failure
to keep a promise made with respect to a future uncertain date,
due to reasons that are not very clear from the evidence
available, does not always amount to misconception of fact. In
order to come within the meaning of the term "misconception of
fact", the fact must have an immediate relevance". Section 90 IPC cannot be called into aid in such a situation, to pardon the
act of a girl in entirety, and fasten criminal liability on the other,
[Ed. : The matter between two asterisks has been emphasised in
original.] unless the court is assured of the fact that from the
very beginning, the accused had never really intended to marry
her [Ed. : The matter between two asterisks has been
emphasised in original.] ." (emphasis supplied) 27 In the aforesaid case, the Supreme Court has also taken note of
 the law laid down in the case of Uday (supra)." Further in re Madhur Baghrecha (supra) taking note of the
legal position on the issue, as has been considered by the Supreme
Court in the case of Maheshwar Tigga (supra), this Court
observed as under: 15.So far as the cases i.e. Laxmi Narayan and Pawan Gaur
(supra) relied upon by the learned counsel for the respondent-
State is concerned, on bare perusal of the same, it is clear that the
facts of the said cases are altogether different from the present
case because in the said cases the Supreme Court and the High
Court dismissed the petition filed under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. on
the ground that the compromise taken place between the parties
is not sufficient and cannot be the sole ground for quashing the
proceedings. In the said cases the petitioners had not raised any
other ground except the ground of compromise taken place
between the parties, but, here not only the facts of the present
case are different than that of those cases relied by the counsel
for the respondent-State, but the quashment of the proceeding is
not being sought by the counsel for the petitioner on the ground
that the parties entered into the compromise, it is argued that
even from the allegation and the material produced by the
prosecution, the offence under Section 376 of IPC is not made
out against the present petitioner. According to the learned
counsel for the petitioner, it is a case of consensual sexual
intercourse because the petitioner and the prosecutrix both are
major, literate, having affair and developed the physical relation
out of their own free will, although for some reasons the said
relationship could not be converted into marriage and annoying
with the failure of the said situation, the complainant lodged the
FIR and later on when the marriage of the prosecutrix was settled
with some other boy, she filed an affidavit stating therein that
since her marriage has been settled, she wants to enjoy her
married life and if the case is continued in future, her remaining
life would be adversely affected and, therefore, she has
compromised the matter and further she does not want to
prosecute the matter any further. On analyzing the facts and
circumstances of the cases cited by the learned counsel for the
respondent-State and the case at hand, it is apparent that the
analogy drawn on by the Supreme Court Court and the High
Court in the aforesaid cases is not applicable in the present case.
In the present case, the petitioner is not seeking quashment of the
FIR and proceeding thereof on the ground that the matter has
been settled between the parties, but he is seeking quashment
mainly on the ground that if the contents of FIR or allegations
attributed by the complainant against the petitioner are taken to
be true on its face value, the offence under Section 376 of IPC is
not made out. As per Shri Datt, it is a clear-cut case of consent
and consensual relation between two major persons with their
consent as they were in relation. As such he has claimed
quashment of the FIR and proceeding thereof. 16.Considering the arguments advanced by the learned counsel
 for the parties, the material available in the case diary, the facts
 and circumstances of the case and also in view of the enunciation
 of law laid down by the Supreme Court in the cases cited above,
 in my opinion, this Court can exercise the power provided under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. and quash the FIR and the proceedings
 initiated thereof against the petitioner. It is not only for the reason
 that in view of the existing facts and circumstances of the case
 the conduct of the petitioner does not fall within the definition of
 rape as defined in Section 375 of IPC, but also for the reason that
 the power provided under Section 482 Cr.P.C. can be exercised to
 secure the ends of justice. In the present case, the complainant
 and her counsel has informed this Court that the marriage of the
 prosecutrix has been settled with some other boy and if the
 present case is continued further, that may adversely affect newly
 married life of the prosecutrix. I find substance in the submission
 made by the learned counsel for the complainant/prosecutrix that
 in such circumstances, it would be appropriate to quash the
 proceedings arising out of the FIR No. 62/2020." 8. Thus, based on an overview of record available before this Court,
it is evidently clear that in 2010 when incident occurred for the first
time, the prosecutrix got cause of action to register an FIR as,
according to her, physical relation was developed by the petitioner
despite her resistance on the pretext of marriage and that relationship
continued till 2020. However no FIR was lodged by the prosecutrix
and when petitioner refused to enter into the marriage then only
report was lodged by the prosecutrix in the year 2021. In the present
case in view of the observation made by the Supreme Court on the
issue, the consent cannot be considered to be a consent obtained
under misconception of fact reason being the relationship between
the parties was existing for a long period of 10 years but prosecutrix
never realized that the petitioner was exploiting her by developing
physical relation with her continuously. Therefore, in the facts and
circumstances of the present case, it is difficult to sustain the charge
levelled against the petitioner that he developed physical relation
with the prosecutrix on a false promise of marriage. It is also difficult
to hold sexual intercourse in the course of a relationship, which
continued for over 10 years, as 'rape' especially in the facts of the
complainant's own allegation. 9. In one of the case laws cited hereinabove, the Supreme Court has
very specifically observed that there must be adequate evidence to
show that at the relevant time i.e. at the initial stage itself, the
accused had no intention whatsoever, of keeping his promise to
marry the victim. There may, of course, be circumstances, when a
person having the best of intentions is unable to marry the victim 30 owing to various unavoidable circumstances. The "failure to keep a
promise made with respect to a future uncertain date, due to reasons
that are not very clear from the evidence available, does not always
amount to misconception of fact. In order to come within the
meaning of the term "misconception of fact", the fact must have an
immediate relevance". Section 90 IPC cannot be called into aid in
such a situation, to pardon the act of a girl in entirety. 10. It is also apt to mention here that considering the facts and
circumstances of the case parties were called in the Court and they
were advised to get married but even in the Court the parents of the
parties because of some differences could not reach to consensus and
as such the attempt made by the Court to resolve the dispute failed.
Thus, in my opinion, the present case does not come within the
definition of rape as defined in Section 375 of IPC because
consensual relationship and affair between the parties are apparent
on the face of the record and admitted by the prosecutrix herself and
therefore if ultimately their relationship could not culminate into
marriage and the promise made by the petitioner was not fulfilled by
him, it cannot be said that consent given by the prosecutrix for
developing physical relation was obtained by the petitioner on the
false pretext of marriage. 11. Needless to say, in the young age when a boy and a girl attracts
towards each other and they flow in emotions and believe that they
love each other, normally they carry impression that their
relationship will naturally be led to marriage. However, sometimes it
fails, and the girl, considering herself to be betrayed and deceived,
cannot lodge the FIR saying that rape has been committed with her. 12. In the case at Bar, the prosecutrix and the petitioner both are
major, well-educated, having affair and developed physical relation
regularly out of their own free will which continued for more than 10
years and ultimately they got separated from each other because
petitioner refused to enter into the marriage, however it does not
mean that a case of rape could be registered against the petitioner.
The Supreme Court and also the High Court time and again
consistently observing that such type of relationship and developing
physical relation during that period cannot be given shape of rape
and prosecution under Section 376 of IPC cannot be initiated. In my
opinion, as per the factual circumstances, as have been narrated by
the prosecutrix in her complaint and also in her statement of 164 Cr.P.C ., this case cannot be considered to be a case of rape as defined
under Section 375 of IPC and the prosecution is nothing but appears
to be an abuse of process of law. Under such circumstances, this
Court exercising inherent power provided under Section 482 of 31 Cr.P.C . can quash the FIR and subsequent proceedings based upon
 the said FIR/final report/charge sheet." 17. I have also perused the order passed by the coordinate Bench in
Lavleen Mishra (supra) but on juxtaposing the facts of the said case with
the facts of the case in hand it is evidently clear that facts of both the cases
are not similar. The Supreme Court and also the various High Courts
consistently observing that though the power under Section 482 CrPC should
be exercised sparingly, but, at the same time, it is also observed by the Courts
that if the Court comes to the conclusion that the prosecution is malicious and
offence on the face of contents of FIR treating it to be true on its face value
not made out, the FIR can be quashed. 18. Thus, from the above, it is clear that this is also a case in which the
petitioner and the complainant both are major and educated in all aspects.
They were in a live-in-relationship for a long duration but marriage between
them could not be solemnized. In my opinion, under such circumstances, the
petitioner cannot be subjected to a criminal prosecution that too for an
offence under Section 376 of IPC. 19. Here in this case, learned counsel for the petitioner has laid special
emphasis on the contents of FIR along with other grounds to establish that
even on considering the contents of FIR to be true on their face value, the
offence of Section 376 is not made out and as such the petitioner cannot be
prosecuted for a case of rape under Section 376 of IPC. It is a case in which
the petitioner has successfully established that the prosecutrix was a
consenting party and she was in consensual relationship with the petitioner,
but the things could not be taken the shape according to her desire and as 32 such the petitioner cannot be held guilty for that and he cannot be subjected
to a criminal prosecution. 20. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case in totality and on
carefully considering the submission made by both the parties, I find the
submission made by the learned counsel for the petitioner convincing and
having substance and as such considering the same and taking note of the
legal position as has been settled by the Supreme Court and also by the High
Court in the cases referred hereinabove, I find that it is a fit case in which
power under Section 482 CrPC can be exercised by this Court. 21. Accordingly, this petition is allowed. The FIR registered against the
petitioner vide Crime No. 535/2022 at Police Station Aishbag, District
Bhopal for the offence punishable under Sections 376 , 376(2)(n) and 506 of
the Indian Penal Code is hereby quashed and in consequence thereof the
charge sheet and the proceedings whereof are also quashed. (SANJAY DWIVEDI)
 JUDGE

Raghvendra

RAGHVENDRA
SHARAN
SHUKLA
2024.11.13
11:14:40 +05'30'