1] Indian Bank has filed these applications praying for

clarification of certain directions contained in the final

judgment dated 16.05.2008 of this Court in Civil Appeal No.

3303/2005 along with Civil Appeal Nos. 3336, 3337, 3338

and 3304-3335 of 2005. 2.1] Respondents herein are cooperative societies registered

under the Cooperative Societies Act . They deposited certain

amounts in cash in fixed deposits of Banks wherefor Fixed

Deposit Receipts (FDRs) were to be issued. Such deposits were

made through some so-called Commission Agents of the

Banks on payment of huge commission which is ordinarily not

allowed by the Nationalized Banks. 2.2] Applications for grant of loans by various persons were

filed before the prescribed authorities of the banks on the

basis of the said FDRs. Allegedly a large number of officers of

the banks were involved in a scam whereby unofficial

investments of the said amount were being made.

2.3] As and when the FDRs matured, the investors requested

the Banks for their encashment. The banks refused to accede

thereto stating that the amount under the FDRs had already

been paid by way of loans and, thus, no further amount was

payable. It was contended that a fraud on the banks has been 3 practiced to which the depositors and the officers of the banks

were parties. 2.4] Writ petitions were filed. A learned Single Judge of the

High Court opined that serious disputed questions of fact

being involved in the said writ petitions, no relief can be

granted to the writ petitioners. 2.5] Despite the same, the learned single judge relying on the

provisions contained in Section 35A of the Banking

Regulations Act, 1949 directed constitution of a Committee

under the Chairmanship of the Deputy Governor of Reserve

Bank of India or his nominee to go into the matter in great

details. Various powers were delegated in favour of the

Committee including the one that the decision of the

Committee shall be final and binding upon the parties.

2.5.1] A Division Bench of the said Court in an intra court

appeal preferred thereagainst, however, stayed only the 4 operation of some of the clauses of the said order. The

Committee, however, was allowed to function.

2.5.2] A special leave petition filed thereagainst has been

dismissed by this Court with certain observations.

2.6] The Committee submitted its report. It was found that

principally the officers of the banks were involved in the

matter of commission of the alleged fraud on the Banks.

2.6.1] Members of the Committee, however, differed in their

opinion as to whether, having regard to the limited scope of

the enquiry, any positive direction could be issued.

2.7] Relying on the report of the Committee, the Division

Bench of the High Court opined that as the writ petitioners

were not parties to the fraud, subject to any other or further

orders that may be passed in the criminal case, appellant-

banks should be directed to pay the amounts under the FDRs

to the depositors. 2.8.1] Appellants filed appeals aggrieved by the said order,

upon obtaining special leave thereof. 2.8.2] On 5th April 2004, a limited notice was issued by this

Court, which is to the following effect:- 2.8.3] This Court in its order dated 10th December, 2004

explained the said order stating: 2.8.4] However, by an order dated 9th May, 2005, upon

hearing the counsel for the parties, `Leave' was granted, as a

result whereof all the contentions of the parties are now open.

3] Having heard the learned counsel for the parties at

length and having noticed and considered the propositions of

law touching the issues involved in these appeals, this Court

allowed the appeals with the following directions [see 2008 (7)

SCALE 363 paras 18,19,20,21,22,& 23 at pgs. 376-377]:- 4] Applicant-Indian Bank by means of these applications

submits that this Court has proceeded on the basis that in the 9 Indian Bank matters also there was CBI investigation, but in

fact there is no CBI investigation nor there are CBI cases

registered or pending in respect of the Indian Bank matters.

The applicant-Bank has averred that in the absence of any

case pending against the cooperative societies in the Indian

Bank matters except one where FDRs were lost and police

case was instituted in which the office bearers of the said

society was found to be involved by the police and after filing

of the charge sheet, criminal case is pending in the concerned

court, there is no protection of recovery of loan amount by the

Indian Bank from the societies, who are not involved in the

CBI cases. Further, it is stated that the facts of the cases of

Indian Bank and the Bank of Baroda were not similar and

identical. It appears that in the Bank of Baroda matters some

criminal cases/CBI cases are pending in which some officers

of the Bank of Baroda are involved in the scam without the

fault of the cooperative societies who should not suffer and

should be paid the FDR amount along with interest. 10 5] The applicant-bank next submits that there is no

direction in the judgment of this Court dated 16.05.2008 that

the tainted societies will have to file civil suit and the FDRs

invested as per the directions of this Court will be subject to

the outcome of the suit. It is also submitted that pursuant to

the judgment passed by this Court the societies involved in

the Indian Bank matters have raised demand notices calling

up the banks to make payment mentioned in the demand

notices and if the demand of the societies is accepted then

that would amount to double payment without there being

any protection to the bank. The applicant-bank also submits

that as per its understanding from the text of the judgment,

the bank should proceed on the basis that if the tainted

societies are innocent and thus to inform them in regard to

the matured amount as on date and then to invest the said

amount in the bank in the form of FDRs. The fate of the

invested FDR will be subject to the outcome of the criminal

cases as well as civil cases which may be instituted by the

societies. The applicant-Bank is aggrieved against the above

extracted directions contained in the judgment to the extent 11 that there is no categorical direction that invested FDR

amount will be subject to civil or criminal cases.

6] On the above-noted premise, the present applications

have been filed seeking clarification of the directions relating

to the cases of the applicant-Indian Bank. 7] We have heard learned counsel for the parties.

8] In Para 20 of the judgment, the direction that, Banks

and CBI shall sit together and identify cooperative societies

which are in no way involved in scam, has been issued on the

assumption that CBI has investigated matters pertaining to all

cooperative societies and thus innocent societies can be

identified and the amount may be paid to them. The

submissions of the applicant-Indian Bank pleaded in these

applications that there was no CBI investigation/case

pertaining to the matters of Indian Bank have not been

brought to the notice of this Court at the time of hearing and

disposal of the appeals filed by the Indian Bank. Had the 12 correct statement of facts been pleaded and contended by the

applicant-Indian Bank at the time of hearing of its appeals,

undisputedly there was no occasion for this Court to labour

hard for issuing such a direction pertaining to the cases of the

cooperative societies-depositors which are not in any way

involved in the scam. Thus, applicant-Indian Bank has

misrepresented the facts before this Court at the time of

hearing of its appeals and now, after realizing its glaring

mistakes, these applications have been filed for seeking

clarification of the directions contained in Paras 20, 21 and 22

of the original judgment. 9] Now, in the background and on reconsideration of the

factual situation, the direction contained in Para 20 of the

judgment to the extent that `the bank with the assistance of

Officer of the Central Bureau of Investigation should make all

attempts to ascertain as to which of the cooperative societies

and cooperative banks are in no way involved in the scam',

shall not apply to the cases of the Indian Bank. The Indian

Bank, however, in the interest of cooperative societies whose 13 FDRs are lying in deposits and availed the loan facilities, shall

on its own identify and ascertain the societies who are not

involved in any CBI investigation/case and on such

ascertainment and verification, the cooperative societies-

depositors shall be informed regarding the maturity of their

FDRs. If the maturity amounts of the FDRs are adjusted

against the loan amount advanced to the cooperative societies

and if there exists any dispute between the depositors

societies and the Indian Bank about the recovery or payment

of the money, the aggrieved party can get its claim adjudicated

through appropriate proceedings before the appropriate forum

or court as permissible under law. If there is no dispute in

regard to the payment of amount of matured FDRs, the Indian

Bank shall not debar or preclude the innocent cooperative

societies-depositors from taking loan against FDRs being

deposited with the Bank. 10] We make it clear that the judgment dated 16.05.2008

shall stand clarified to the extent indicated above so far, it

pertains to the cases of Indian Bank. This clarification will 14 however, not dilute or affect other directions issued in the

final judgment. 11] In the facts and circumstances of the case for the above-

stated reasons, the applications filed by applicant-Indian

Bank are allowed. However, in view of the conduct of the

applicant-Indian Bank, it is directed to pay cost of

Rs.20,000/- within four weeks from this order, which shall be

deposited in the account of the Supreme Court Legal Services

Authority. ......................................J.
 (S. B. Sinha)

 ......................................J.
 (Lokeshwar Singh Panta)

 New Delhi,
 March 24, 2009.