Officer. This day, a report has been filed wherefrom it appears that
 a show-cause notice has been served to the Officer-in-Charge,
 Birpara Police Station and the Investigating Officer by Memo dated 2 9th September, 2014. The Sub divisional Police Officer, Alipurduar
has also been directed to conduct a detailed enquiry including the
lapses, if any, in the investigation by the Investigating Officer and a
departmental proceeding has also been started against the
Investigating Officer for lapses in the investigation. The Sub-
divisional Police Officer, Alipurduar was also directed to investigate
the Birpara Police Station Case No. 129 of 2014 dated 9th August,
2014. But the allegations levelled against the erstwhile
Investigating Officer is of a serious nature and it is true that unless
proved, one cannot be held guilty, but the confidence of the public
in the State must be maintained. Till date the steps taken for
investigation has not been satisfactory. Therefore, in the fitness of
things and in the interest of justice, let investigation of Birpara
Police Station Case No. 129 of 2014 dated 9th August, 2014 be
handed to the Criminal Investigation Department, West Bengal
within a week from date. This measure is interim in nature
depending on the progress made by the C. I. D West Bengal in the
investigation of the case and it is only for the purpose of
determining whether the C. I. D. as an agency should be allowed to
continue investigation, direction is given for filing affidavits. Let affidavit-in-opposition be filed by 3rd November, 2014;
reply thereto, if any, be filed by 14th November, 2014. Let the
matter appear in the list on 18th November, 2014 when a report is
to be filed by SEBI. It is only at the final hearing after considering
the opposition filed, the stage of investigation and the report of
SEBI, a decision will be taken whether the investigation should be
allowed to be made by the C. I. D. or should be handed over to CBI. Certified copy of this order, if applied for, be given to the
learned advocates for the parties on priority basis. (PATHERYA J.) 3