These Criminal Petitions are filed under Section 482 of the

Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (for short, 'BNSS') by the

petitioner seeking anticipatory bail in the event of his arrest.

1.1. The petitioner is accused No.5 in Crime Nos.10 and 12 of 2025,

accused No.2 in Crime No.11 of 2025 and accused in Crime No.215 of

2025. The de facto complainants have filed various complaints with

similar allegations against the petitioner and other accused before the

Economic Offences Wing (EOW) Police Station, Cyberabad, and the

said complaints were registered for the offences punishable under

Sections 316(2), 318(4) and 61(2) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita,

2023 (for short, 'BNS') and Section 5 of Telangana State Protection of

Depositors of Financial Establishments Act, 1999 (for short

'TSPDFEA'). Hence, all four criminal petitions are heard together and

the same are being disposed of by this common order. 2. For the facility of reference, the facts in Crl.P.No.6354 of 2025 is

being referred to. Brief facts of the case: 3. The case of prosecution in brief is that the de facto

complainants have lodged a written complaint to the Deputy 3 Commissioner of Police, Economic Offences Wing, Cyberabad, on

11.02.2025, stating that M/s Capital Protection Force Private Limited

(Falcon) is engaged in Invoice discounting and functioning from 4th

floor, Office No.405, HUDA Techo Enclave, High Tech City,

Hyderabad, since 2015 onwards. Invoice Discounting is a financial

service in which, company can raise funds by selling their invoices to

third party financial institutions at a discount rate. The company

offered the opportunity to deposit in Falcon under the pretext of

providing funds for invoice discounting. The deposit was structured

with the promise of returns basis on the invoices they discounted,

with clear agreements that specified maturity dates for repayment,

including interest. 3.1. It is further averred that there are different invoice plans such

are 1) 45 days Invoice Plan with interest rate between 11%-12%, 2) 90

days Invoice Plan with interest rate between 16%-18% and 3) 180

days or more days Invoice Plan with interest rate between 20%-

21.95%. The company is having bank account No.111405002867 of

ICICI Bank, Gachibowli Branch and Escrow Account

No.777705844888 in the same bank. The depositors have to transfer

their deposit amount to the said account through online. The deposit

range is from Rs.25,000/- to Rs.5 Crores. 3.2. It is also stated that the de-facto complainant had deposited an

amount of Rs.3.83 Crores by transferring from his account

No.007101508028 of ICICI Bank. The other depositors namely 1)

Vandana Soni has deposited an amount of Rs.2.36 Crs. by

transferring from her account No.3111718567 Kokak Bank, 2) Silpa

Pappagari has deposited Rs.64,25,000/-, by transferring from her

account No.124710100007143 Union Bank, 3) Daina Nazerath has

deposited Rs.1.27 Crores from her account No.346501500043 ICICI

Bank, 4) Dr.Sarvana has deposited Rs.2.55 Crores in the name of his

mother namely Rajamani Palanippan and transferred from his

account No.50100639388449 HDFC, Kethakkam Branch, Chennai.

Thus, the total deposit amount comes to Rs.9,38,25,000/-.

3.3. It is also averred that they have received monthly returns till

17.01.2025 and thereafter, no payment is received from the company.

When the de-facto complainant and others visited the office of M/s.

Capital Protection Force Private Limited, they found that the office is

closed and nobody is lifting their phone calls and they came to know

that the management of Falcon cheated the depositors and

misappropriated their funds and caused wrongful loss to them. Hence

the de-facto complainant requested to take necessary legal action

against the accused persons namely Amardeep Kumar & Others.

Basing on the said complaint, a case in Crime No.10 of 2025 was 5 registered against the petitioner and other accused for the said

offences. 4. Heard Mr. T. Niranjan Reddy, learned Senior Counsel,

representing Mr. T. Nagarjuna Reddy, learned counsel for the

petitioner, Mrs. Kathyaeni Ramshetty, learned counsel for respondent

No.2/de facto complainant and Mr. Syed Yasar Mamoon, learned

Additional Public Prosecutor appearing for respondent No.1 - State.

Submissions of learned counsel for the petitioner: 5. Learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner submitted that the

petitioner has not committed the offence and he was falsely implicated

in the present crime as accused basing upon the confessional

statement given by the other accused. The petitioner is Consultant of

accused No.1 company and he is not having any role on the affairs of

the said company. The petitioner himself invested an amount of

Rs.1.35 Crores in accused No.1 company between 2017 to 2022 and

the said amount is still lying with the company and the petitioner falls

within the definition of victim but not as an accused. As per the

Purchaser Services Agreement, the investors have invested the

amount and they are entitled for reverse discounting fee and the said

transaction would not attract Section 5 of the Act, especially the

victims/de facto complainants have not deposited any amount and

the same does not fall within the ambit of deposit as envisaged under 6 the Section 2(b) of the Act. Even according to the allegations made in

the complaint, the victims have invested the amounts in accused No.1

company. 5.1. He also submitted that the petitioner has received the amount

from accused No.1 company towards interest portion and Rs.65,000/-

per month towards consultation charges to his account and he has

not received any other amounts from accused No.1 company as

alleged by the prosecution. The petitioner is also a victim in the

hands of accused No.1 company like respondent No.2 and other

victims. Accused No.1 company did not divert any amounts of the

victims or respondent No.2 to the account of the petitioner.

5.2. He further submitted that even according to the documents

relied upon by the prosecution, especially the income tax returns of

accused No.1 company shows that accused No.1 company has

transferred amounts in the name of Aryan Singh, who is none other

than the son of accused No.2, who is a minor, however, the

prosecution without properly verifying the said documents and

without examining the same alleging that the said amounts were

transferred to the petitioner's account merely because the petitioner

name is also Aryan Singh. 5.3. He further submitted that even according to the documents,

which are relied upon by the prosecution, it reveals that an amount of 7 Rs.1,500,000/- transferred from the account of the petitioner into

accused No.1 company on 10.01.2018 and Rs.1,000,000/- on

14.02.2018. The above said documents clearly reveal that the

petitioner had invested the amounts in accused No.1 company and

the petitioner is also victim. He further submitted that the petitioner

is not having any criminal antecedents and he is suffering with

several ailments. The petitioner is ready and willing to cooperate with

the investigation and also abide by the conditions, which are going to

be imposed by this Court. 5.4. In support of his contention, he relied upon the judgment of the

Hon'ble Supreme Court in P.Krishnamohan Reddy vs. State of

Andhra Pradesh 1; Submissions of learned Additional Public Prosecutor : 6. Per contra, learned Additional Public Prosecutor submitted that

the petitioner/accused No.5 is not a Consultant and he is Chief

Operational Officer (COO) of the Falcon Invoice Discounting and he

looked after the entire affairs of Falcon and he is responsible for

overseeing the operations of accused No.1 company and procedures of

the Falcon Invoice Discounting. He is in a responsible position for

implementation of the strategic plan of the company Falcon Invoice

Discounting. 1 2025 SCC OnLine SC 1157 8 6.1. He further submitted that the petitioner has not invested any

amount in accused No.1 company. Accused No.1 company

transferred an amount of Rs.1,62,55,619/- and an amount of

Rs.1,86,80,705/- into the account of the petitioner. The petitioner

collected a huge amount of Rs.14.35 Crores as deposits from the

victims on behalf of 'Falcon' and out of the said amount, he

transferred amounts to accused No.1 company and in turn, accused

No.1 company returned amounts into the account of the petitioner.

6.2. He also submitted that the petitioner has not invested any

amount as alleged in the petition either Rs.2.95 Crores or Rs.1.35

Crores, as pleaded in the main criminal petition or in the additional

grounds. He further submitted that the petitioner and other accused

have collected huge amount from the victims in the name of accused

No.1 company. The Investigating Officer recorded the statements of

37 witnesses/victims only and in their statements, they specifically

mentioned that deposited an amount of Rs.30,73,99,047/-.

6.3. He further submitted that the Investigating Officer during the

course of investigation they revealed that the petitioner and other

accused have collected huge deposits from 7,560 depositors from all

over the country to a tune of Rs.4215 Crores, out of the said amount,

they have diverted an amount of Rs.792 Crores to accused Nos.2 to

24 and their shell companies and accused No.1 company has failed to 9 return the amounts i.e., principal and interests, to the victims since

January, 2025, and the accused persons along with the petitioner are

absconding. He also submitted that the petitioner has committed

serious offence and there is serious impact on the society. The

investigation is under progress. 6.4. He also submitted that as per the provisions of Section 2(b) of

the Act, the amounts which were collected by the petitioner and other

accused from the victims/customers in the name of accused No.1

agreeing to pay the said amount with interest comes within the ambit

of deposit. Hence, the ingredients under Section 5 of the Act are

specifically applicable to the present case. 6.5. He further submitted that accused Nos.4, 8, 10, 11 and 18 have

approached this Court and filed Crl.P.Nos.3521 and 3620 of 2025

seeking to quash the proceedings in Crime Nos.10, 11 and 12 of 2025

on the file of the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) Police Station

Cyberabad, and the same was dismissed on 26.03.2025. He also

submitted that accused No.17 in Crime No.10 of 2025 and 11 of 2025

have approached this Court and filed Crl.P.No.3637 of 2025 and 3640

of 2025 for grant of anticipatory bail and the said criminal petitions

were dismissed by this Court on 28.03.2025. Similarly, accused No.7

in Crime No.10 of 2025 has approached this Court and filed

Crl.P.No.3940 of 2025 seeking for grant of regular bail and this Court 10 dismissed the same on 02.04.2025. The grounds which are raised by

the petitioner in the present case are also similar in nature and the

investigation is under progress and the prime accused are

absconding. The petitioner has played a key role in accused No.1

company and he also one of the prime accused in the crimes and

there are specific and serious allegations are levelled against him and

huge amount belonging to the innocent victims were transferred and

diverted from accused No.1 company to the account of the petitioner

and other accused and to their shell companies and misappropriated

the same. Hence, the petitioner is not entitled for grant of

anticipatory bail and these criminal petitions are liable to be

dismissed. 6.6. In support of his contention, he relied upon the judgment of the

Hon'ble Apex Court in Virupakshappa gouda and another v. State

of Karnataka and another 2. Submissions of learned counsel for respondent No.2 : 7. Learned counsel for respondent No.2 submitted that the

petitioner is Chief Operational Officer (COO) of accused No.1 company

and he is managing the company day-to-day business operations,

strategic planning, implementation, financial management - financial

operations, budgeting, policy development & implementation, 2 (2017) 5 SCC 406 11 customer experience, talent acquisition and employee management

etc., and he is having important role in the said company. The

petitioner alleged in the main criminal petition that he invested an

amount of Rs.2,95,00,000/- in accused No.1 company, whereas in the

additional grounds, it was alleged that he invested an amount of

Rs.1.35 Crores between 2017 to 2022, though he has not invested

any amount in accused No.1 company, on the other hand, the

petitioner and other accused have misappropriated huge amount

deposited by the depositors/victims and diverted the amounts to their

personal accounts as well as their shell companies.

7.1. Learned counsel further submitted that accused No.1 has paid

the principal amount and interest to the depositors only up to

January, 2025 and thereafter, they stopped the payment to the

victims/depositors. She also submitted that as per the agreement,

there was maturity date and also repayment date, which evidently

proves that the amounts given by the victims fall under the ambit of

'deposit'. Hence, the offence under Section 5 of the Act is very much

attracted against the petitioner. 7.2. Learned counsel also submitted that accused No.1 company

was not registered with the Registrar of Companies for taking

business activity of invoice discounting, however, accused No.1

company had lured thousands of investors across the country to 12 invest into the Ponzi scheme through attractive interest rates and

further submitted that the petitioner and other accused have

methodically devised a plan to make the investors believe in their

Ponzi scheme by making use the names of the world's most renowned

companies, such as, Amazon, Flipkart, Addidas, Goderj, etc., to name

a few and declared 'deals' for instruments into invoice discounting

with these companies. Falcon had developed in application through

which investors were instructed to register, make their payments,

receive their payment receipt and agreement copies and make it look

absolutely genuine. The petitioner is having key role in accused No.1

company and he did day-to-day business management and

operations, financial management etc., and he is the key conspirator

in the crime. 7.3. Learned counsel further submitted that one of the victims sent

mail to Dabur Cares and TATA 1 MG to ascertain the affairs of

accused No.1 in turn they sent reply mail to the victims on

11.05.2025, wherein they specifically stated that they are not having

any association or affiliation with Falcon Group and they were not

parties to any of the agreements and have no involvement whatsoever

in the Falcon and they have not given authorization to use of its name

and trademark by Falcon in any manner and any deposit done by the

victim with Falcon was at their own risk and subject to the agreement 13 between the victim and Falcon. She further submitted that accused

No.1 is Director and Shareholder in 14 companies in India, 4

companies at abroad and the petitioner and other accused diverted

the huge amount into their accounts and their shell companies. The

petitioner is also having important role in 'VIRGO HOLDING', which is

a shell company of accused No.4. 7.4. Learned counsel further submitted that the petitioner is not a

victim and he never deposited any such amount in accused No.1

company and has not filed any piece of evidence to establish that he

invested the amount. She further submitted that the Bank statement

relied upon by learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner is pertaining

to Kotak Mahindra Bank and the above said account was closed long

back and the petitioner is opening a Bank account No.

900001502727, which is active from 01.01.2018 to 10.06.2025, which

clearly reveals that several amounts were transferred from Falcon into

the account of the petitioner. 7.5. The petitioner is COO of accused No.1 company and to support

her contention, she relied upon the document, i.e., Strategic

Investment Proposal, which is filed along with the counter dated

09.06.2025, wherein the petitioner was shown as authorized signatory

and COO of accused No.1 company and signed on the said document.

Hence, the contention raised by learned Senior Counsel for the 14 petitioner that the petitioner is only consultant to accused No.1

company is not true and correct. She further submitted that the

petitioner himself in his website specifically mentioned that he is the

COO of accused No.1 company. She further submitted that accused

No.20 in her statement specifically deposed the role of the petitioner.

7.6. Learned counsel further submitted that accused No.1 company

has violated Factoring Regulation Act, 2011 , Payment and Settlement

System Act, 2017 , Income Tax Act and GST Act. The petitioner and

other accused have played fraud upon innocent 7056 depositors from

all over the country and they have collected huge amount more than

Rs.4,215 Crores from the victims and out of which, Rs.792 Crores

were diverted into the account of accused Nos.2 to 24 and their shell

companies. Hence, if the petitioner is granted anticipatory bail, he

will interfere with the investigation and influence the witnesses and

he is a flight risk and custodial interrogation of the petitioner is also

required for conducting investigation. Hence, the petitioner is not

entitled for grant of anticipatory bail and the criminal petitions are

liable to be dismissed. 7.7. In support of her contention, she relied upon the following
judgments: 8. Learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner by way of reply

submitted that the judgments which are relied upon by the learned

counsel for respondent No.2 are not applicable to the facts and

circumstances of the case on the ground that the above said

judgments arise under PMLA Act and as per the provisions of Section

45 of the PMLA Act, there is a specific bar to grant anticipatory bail in

favour of the accused, whereas, the present crime was registered for

the offences under Sections 318(4), 316(2) and 61(2) of the BNS and Section 5 of TSPDFEA. The parameters for deciding anticipatory bail

application in respect of BNS offences and PMLA offences are different

and distinctive. Analysis : Capital Protection Force Private Limited (Falcon) since 2015. The said

Company is engaged in Invoice Discounting. The Invoice Discounting

is a financial service, wherein the companies raise funds by selling

their invoices to a third party financial institution at a discounted

rate. The company offering invoice discounting typically agrees to buy

the invoices and provides immediate payment, minus a discount fee.

As per the Invoice Discounting Plans, basing on the agreement, the

interest rate is 11% - 12% p.a. for 45-Days; 16% - 18% p.a. for 90

days; and 20% - 21.95% p.a. for 180 or more days. 10. The de facto complainants further stated that they have

received their monthly returns up to 17.01.2025 only, and their

deposits amount maturity was due on multiple dates throughout the 17 year 2025. Even after completion of maturity period, accused No.1

company had not returned the monthly returns along with capital

amount to their respective accounts and there is no response from

accused No.1 company as well as from the petitioner and other

accused and when they enquired about affairs of the company,

accused No.1 office was closed and the petitioner and other accused

were switched off their mobile phones. Immediately de facto

complainants have lodged the complaints and basing on the same, the

above said crimes were registered. 11. The specific case of the prosecution is that during the course of

investigation, investigation agency found that under the guise of

Invoice Discounting in the name of Falcon, the accused persons have

collected huge amount of Rs.4,215 Crores from 7,560 deposits all over

India and accused No.1 company diverted an amount of Rs.792

Crores to the account of accused Nos.2 to 24 and their shell

companies and also misappropriated the amounts of the victims. 12. The specific case of the prosecution as well as unofficial

respondent that the petitioner is having major role in accused No.1

company and he is Chief Operating Officer (COO) and he is managing

day-to-day affairs of the company including business operations,

strategic planning, implementation, financial management-financial

operations, budgeting, policy development and implementation, 18 customer experience, talent acquisition and employee management

etc. In support of their contention, they relied upon the document

namely 'Strategic Investment Proposal', which was filed along with the

counter affidavit. The said document clearly reveals that the

petitioner has signed as C.O.O. of Falcon group as authorized

signatory. Similarly, other documents also reveal that the petitioner

himself in his website specifically mentioned that he is the C.O.O. of

accused No.1 company. Whether the petitioner has discharged his

duties as C.O.O. or only as Consultant of accused No.1 company will

come into light after full fledged investigation or during the course of

trial. 13. Insofar as the contention raised by the learned Senior Counsel

for the petitioner that the petitioner himself deposited an amount of

Rs.1.35 crores in accused No.1 company, similar to the other

depositors, and the petitioner is a victim in the hands of accused No.1

company, is concerned, the specific case of prosecution is that the

petitioner had collected huge amount of Rs.14.35 crores from 17

victims on behalf of Falcon and out of the said amount, he transferred

some amounts to accused No.1 company and in turn accused No.1

company returned the amounts into the account of the petitioner and

the petitioner did not deposit any amount in the account No.1

company. Whether the petitioner deposited his own amount of 19 Rs.1.35 crores in accused No.1 company or he had collected the

amount of Rs.14.35 crores from the victims or he transferred the

amounts to the accused No.1 company and in turn he received the

amounts from the accused No.1 company, these aspects will also

come into light during the course of investigation. 14. The record further reveals that there are specific allegations

against the petitioner that he and other accused have received the

huge amounts from the victims under the scheme of Invoice

Discounting and returned the interest as well as principal amount

upon maturity to the victims up to January, 2025 only. Thereafter,

the petitioner and other accused have failed to remit the interest and

the principal amount to the victims. The specific case of the

prosecution is that accused No.1 company diverted the amounts

belonging to the victims into the accounts of accused Nos.2 to 24 and

their shell companies and misappropriated their amounts. The record

reveals that in the agreement there are specific clauses incorporated,

such as, maturity date, repayment date, and period of deposit and

rate of interest payable to the depositors/victims along with principal

amounts. Hence, this Court is of the considered view that the

amounts which were received by from the victims under the guise of

the scheme 'Falcon' comes within the meaning of deposit as envisaged 20 under Section 2(b) of the Act. Therefore, the ingredients of Section 5 of the Act is applicable. 15. Insofar as other contention raised by the learned Senior

Counsel that the petitioner is not arrayed as accused in Crime No.215

of 2025 and the Investigating Officers are taking coercive steps

against the petitioner is concerned, the record reveals that the

petitioner is an accused in Crime Nos.10, 11 and 12 of 2025, wherein

there are specific allegations are levelled against the petitioner and

other accused regarding diversion and misappropriation of huge

amount of Rs.4,215 Crores, which was collected from the victims

under the name and style of Falcon. In Crime No. 215 of 2025 also,

very same allegations are levelled against accused No.1 company and

the investigation is under progress. 16. In respect of the contentions raised by the learned counsel for

respondent No.2 that accused No.1 company is not registered with the

Registrar of Companies and lured thousands of depositors in their

scheme by making them to believe in their Ponzi scheme by using the

names of the world's most renowned companies, such as, Amazon,

Flipkart, Adidas, Godrej, etc. to name a few and declared 'deals' for

instruments into invoice discounting with these companies, though

there is no privity of contract between the said companies with

accused No.1 company and accused No.1 company has violated 21 Factoring Regulation Act, 2011 , Payment and Settlement System Act,

2017 , Income Tax Act and GST Act, are concerned, the said aspects

also will come into light during the course of investigation only,

especially when the investigation is under progress. 17. In P. Krishna Mohan Reddy supra, the Hon'ble Apex Court

held that the legal inadmissibility of confessions and statements made

by an accused, particularly in relation to Sections 24 to 30 of the

Indian Evidence Act and Section 161 of the CrPC. The Court held that

any confession made to a police officer is inadmissible under Section

25 , even if voluntary, and if made while in custody, it is inadmissible

unless recorded before a magistrate as per Section 26 . Section 27 carves out a narrow exception, allowing only that portion of the

statement that leads to the discovery of a fact to be admissible, and

only against the maker. Under Section 30 , a confession implicating a

co-accused can be used only if both accused are being jointly tried for

the same offence, the confession implicates both parties, and is duly

proved in court--conditions not fulfilled at the anticipatory or regular

bail stage. Statements recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. from

accused persons, whether inculpatory or exculpatory, cannot be used

to implicate co-accused as such statements are not made under oath,

are not subject to cross-examination, and are hit by the bar of Section

162 Cr.P.C. The Court emphasized that even if a confession appears 22 reliable, it cannot be used at the bail stage unless it has been tested

during trial and meets all evidentiary requirements. The judgment

underscores the principle that statements or confessions by an

accused cannot be used to prejudice the case of a co-accused unless

proven in a joint trial under strict legal safeguards, ensuring the

protection of fair trial rights. 18. The above said judgment relied upon by the learned Senior

Counsel for the petitioner is not applicable to the facts and

circumstances of the case on hand on the ground that there are

specific and serious allegations are levelled against the petitioner that

the petitioner himself has collected huge amount of Rs.14.35 Crores

from the victims on behalf of Falcon and out of the said amount, he

transferred some amounts to accused No.1 company and in turn

accused No.1 returned the amounts into the account of the petitioner.

Similarly, accused No.1 company collected huge amount of Rs.4215

crores and diverted huge amounts into the accounts of accused Nos.2

to 24 and their shell companies. 19. In V. Vijay Sai Reddy supra, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held

that while deciding bail applications, courts must consider various

factors such as the nature and seriousness of the accusation, the

strength of the supporting evidence, the severity of the potential

punishment, the character and circumstances of the accused, the 23 likelihood of the accused appearing for trial, and any risk of witness

tampering. The Court emphasized that at the bail stage, the

requirement is only to assess whether there are reasonable grounds to

believe in the existence of a case against the accused and not to

demand evidence that proves guilt beyond reasonable doubt. This

reflects the legislative intent to permit bail based on a evaluation,

rather than a detailed assessment of guilt. 20. In P. Chidambaram supra, the Hon'ble Apex Court has held

that for grant of anticipatory bail, especially in cases involving

economic offences like money laundering, reiterated that such relief

should be granted sparingly and only in exceptional cases. It

emphasized that custodial interrogation is often essential during

investigation, as it can lead to discovery of concealed material and

crucial information, which might be obstructed if the accused is

protected by pre-arrest bail. Referring to State v. Anil Sharma, the

Court noted that interrogation under bail protection becomes a mere

formality, while custodial questioning is more effective. In cases

involving economic offences, the Court highlighted their seriousness

and complexity, observing that such crimes are committed with

deliberate design, harming the economy and public interest.

Economic offences were described as a class apart, requiring a

different approach to bail. It relied on precedents like Y.S. Jagan

Mohan Reddy v. CBI and Directorate of Enforcement v. Ashok Kumar 24 Jain , stressing that personal liberty must be balanced against the

need for effective investigation, especially where cross-border money

trails and multiple stages of laundering are involved. In the specific

case discussed (related to P. Chidambaram), the Court found that the

stage of investigation, nature of allegations, and materials collected

including international inputs justified denial of anticipatory bail. It

concluded that granting such relief would hamper investigation, and

that Section 438 Cr.P.C. should be invoked only when the allegations

appear frivolous or groundless, which was not the case here. 21. The aforesaid judgment relied upon by the learned counsel for

respondent No.2 is pertaining to the offence registered under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (for short ' PML Act ). As

per Section 45 of the PML Act, there is a specific bar for granting

anticipatory bail, whereas in the case on hand, the crimes were

registered for the offence punishable under Sections 318(4), 316(2)

and 61(2) of the BNS and Section 5 of TSPDFEA. 22. It is relevant to place on record that the Hon'ble Supreme Court

in Adri Dharan Das v. State of West Bengal 5, wherein it was held

that in a series of decisions culminating in the rejection of

anticipatory bail for P. Chidambaram, reiterated that economic

offences like money laundering require a different legal approach, 5 (2005) 4 SCC 303 25 given their complex, calculated, and far-reaching impact on the

national economy. Custodial interrogation was held to be not only

legally permissible but often necessary to uncover deep-rooted

conspiracies, especially when the accused may possess critical

information hidden behind layers of financial transactions. The Court

emphasized that Section 438 CrPC, which governs anticipatory bail, is

an extraordinary remedy and must be exercised sparingly, only when

accusations appear manifestly false or frivolous. Pre-arrest bail, if

granted routinely, would frustrate investigation and defeat the

purpose of uncovering concealed evidence, especially when

international links and complex layering of funds are involved. Thus,

in cases involving serious allegations of economic offences,

anticipatory bail should be denied to enable effective and meaningful

investigation. 23. In Serious Fraud Investigation Office supra, the Hon'ble Apex

Court held that: 24. In above said judgment, the Hon'ble Apex Court has

emphasized on the aspect that anticipatory bail should not be granted

routinely, particularly in serious economic offences involving large-

scale fraud, public money, or complex financial crimes. Such offences

are distinct and grave, posing serious threats to the country's

economy and financial stability. When an accused evades the legal

process by avoiding summons or warrants, concealing themselves, or

otherwise obstructing the judicial proceedings, they demonstrate a

clear disregard for the rule of law. In such circumstances, especially

when non-bailable warrants have been issued or proclamation

proceedings under Section 82 Cr.P.C. have been initiated, the courts

should take a strict view and generally deny anticipatory bail.

Granting such relief to individuals who willfully avoid the legal

process undermines the administration of justice and delays legal

proceedings. Therefore, except in exceptional cases, those who

attempt to derail the process should not be granted the privilege of

anticipatory bail. 25. In the case on hand, there are serious and specific allegations

levelled against the petitioner and other accused that they have 28 collected huge amounts of Rs.4,215 crores from 7,516 deposits across

the India under the scheme 'Invoice Discounting' by Falcon and out of

the said amount, accused No.1 company has diverted an amount of

Rs.792 Crores into the accounts of accused Nos.2 to 24 and their

shell companies. The specific allegations levelled against the

petitioner are that he has collected Rs.14.35 Crores from 17

depositors and transferred it to accused No.1 company and in turn,

accused No.1 company has transferred some amounts to the

petitioner's account and misappropriated the funds of the innocent

depositors/victims. 26. It is also relevant to mention that accused Nos.4, 8, 10, 11 and

18 have approached this Court and filed Crl.P.Nos.3521 and 3620 of

2025 seeking to quash the proceedings in Crime Nos.10, 11 and 12 of

2025 on the file of the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) Police Station

Cyberabad, and the same was dismissed on 26.03.2025. Further,

accused Nos.17 and 7 in Crime No.10 of 2025 have approached this

Court and filed Crl.P.Nos.3637 and 3940 of 2025 for grant of

anticipatory bail and the said criminal petitions were dismissed on

28.03.2025 and 02.04.2025 respectively, and accused No.17 in Crime

No.11 of 2025 has filed Crl.P.No.3640 of 2025 for grant of anticipatory

bail and the same was dismissed on 28.03.2025. 27. Taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of the

case, gravity and seriousness of the offences and also the principles

laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court as mentioned supra, this Court

is not inclined to grant anticipatory bail to the petitioner in the above

said crimes, especially when the investigation is under progress. 28. Accordingly, all the Criminal Petitions are dismissed. Miscellaneous applications, pending if any, shall stand closed. _______________________
 J. SREENIVAS RAO, J
Date:30 .06.2025
L.R. Copy to be marked. mar/pgp