- 1. Heard. 2. These are the applications for grant of regular bail under

 Section 483 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023, in

 connection with Crime No.532 of 2024 registered at Parner Police

 Station, District Ahmednagar, for the offences punishable under Sections

 409, 420 r/w 34 of the Indian Penal Code , 1860 and Section 3 of the

 M.P.I.D. Act, 1999. 3. The learned advocates for the applicants pointed out the report in

which the informant averred that he is an account holder of Raje Shivaji

Gramin Bigarsheti Sahakari Patsanstha Maryadit, Kanhurpathar, Taluka

Parner, Branch Takli Dhokeshwar having saving account No.3256. It is

alleged by the informant that he deposited an amount of Rs.1,19,627/- in the

said Patsanstha for a period of 13 months @ 10.25% per annum interest.

However, upon maturity, the Patsansta refused to repay that amount despite

repeated oral and written demands. The Chairman of the Patsanstha, Azad

Prabhakar Thube along with other co-accused Directors conspired with

each other and disbursed loan amounts of about rupees 60 to 70 crores to

their relatives without obtaining surety and necessary documentation and

thereby misappropriated huge amount of the depositors. Therefore, the

report was lodged. 4. The learned Senior advocate Mr. Harshad Nimbalkar and learned

advocate Mr. Rahul Karpe for the applicants submitted that the applicants

have been falsely implicated in the crime. They have not misappropriated

any amount and that the audit of the Patsanstha has already been done. The

applicants have roots in the society and they will not flee away from the

trial. It is submitted that the applicant Popat Bolhaji Dhawle, in Bail

Application No.1838 of 2025, is ready to deposit a certain amount. It is

submitted that Section 409 of the Indian Penal Code not applicable to the

 2 of 5
 (( 3 )) BA NO. 1263 OF 2025

applicant Popat Bolhaji Dhawle. The practical investigation is over and the

trial will take a long period. The custody of the applicants is not necessary.

It is further submitted that if the applicants are released on bail, they are

ready to abide by all conditions if imposed by this Court. They lastly

prayed to grant bail to the applicants. In support of their submissions, the

learned advocates for the applicants relied upon the judgment of this Court

in Anil Chandulal Kothari Vs. The State of Maharashtra, Bail Application

No.1273 of 2024, in which this Court held that audit report shows that

documents were not forged. 5. The learned APP for the State strongly opposed the applications

and submitted that the applicants have illegally sanctioned loans and duped

crores of rupees of the depositors. If the applicants are released on bail,

they will certainly pressurize the prosecution witnesses and tamper with the

evidence. It is submitted that merely because applicant Popat Bolhaji

Dhawle in Bail Application No.1838 of 2025 is ready to deposit some

amount, bail cannot be granted. Considering that the huge amount of

Rupees twenty two crores is misappropriated by the applicants and

happening of such financial offences again and again, the learned APP

prayed to reject the applications. In support of his submission, the learned

APP relied upon the following authorities: b. Naveen Singh Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh , AIR OnLine 2021

SC 138, in which it is held that merely filing of charge sheet is not a ground

for bail and forging the document manipulating is a serious kind of offence. c. Prashant S/o Jaideo Wasankar Vs. State of Maharashtra , in

Criminal Application (BA) No.622 of 2016 with Cri. Appln. (Appln.)

No1169 of 2016 with Cri. Appln. (Appl.) No.1238 of 2016, in which it is

held that showing the involvement of accused prima facie applicant booked

for a serious nature of crime and it impacts on the society at large, applicant

can be filed temporary bail before the trial court with timetable. 6. Perused the charge sheet, particularly the report and statements

of witnesses. From the charge sheet, it is crystal clear that the applicants

had disbursed huge loan amounts to their relatives and thereafter got the

said amounts transferred to their personal accounts. During the statutory

audit, it was revealed that 24 bogus loan transactions amounting to Rs.22

crores were made at the instance of the applicants. The misappropriated

amount is huge for which there is strong material. In such circumstances, if

 4 of 5
 (( 5 )) BA NO. 1263 OF 2025

the applicants are released on bail, they will certainly pressurize the

prosecution witnesses and tamper with the evidence. Though Section 409 of the IPC may not be attracted against the applicant, Popat Bolhaji Dhawle,

other Section 420 of the IPC etc., is invoked and he is booked for serious

crime. Section 409 of the IPC is invoked against other applicant for which

life imprisonment is likely to be awarded. 7. As far as the case law relied upon by the applicants is concerned,

each case has to be decided on its own merits and the facts of each are are

always decisive. Therefore, the law laid down in Anil Kothari Vs. The

State of Maharashtra (Supra) is not helpful to the applicants. No case is

made out to grant bail to the applicants on the principle that bail is the rule

and jail is the exception. Therefore, both the applicants are not entitled for

bail. The Bail Applicants are rejected. 8. Considering the peculiar nature of the case and the fact that the

applicants are behind bars for more than one year, the Trial Court is directed

to expedite the trial and dispose of the same as early as possible within one

year by keeping in mind that if the trial is not disposed of expeditiously, the

applicants are entitled to bail as their right to speedy trial affects as per Article 21 of the Constitution. [ SANJAY A. DESHMUKH, J. ]
HRJadhav

 5 of 5