This appeal filed by the assessee for the assessment year 2015-16 is

directed against the order of Ld. CIT(A), Moradabad dated 14.05.2019. The

assessee has raised following grounds of appeal:- 2. At the time of hearing, no one appeared on behalf of the assessee.

There is no request for adjournment by the Ld.AR of the assessee. It is seen

from the records that no one has been attended the proceedings since

19.01.2021. The notices issued by the Registry are returned back unserved

by the Postal Authority with remark "left". The assessee has not provided any

current address to the Registry. Therefore, the appeal is taken up for hearing

and is being decided in the absence of the assessee. 3. The only effective ground in this appeal is against the confirmation of

addition made by the Assessing Officer ("AO") regarding declining the

exemption for Long Term Capital Gain ("LTCG") of Rs.22,76,598/- on sale of

equity shares of Eco Friendly Food Processing Park Ltd.

FACTS OF THE CASE 4. Facts giving rise to the present appeal are that in this case the assessee

HUF has filed its return of income electronically on 31.08.2015 declaring total

income of Rs.7,91,340/-. Subsequently, the case was selected for complete

scrutiny under Computer Assisted Scrutiny Selection ("CASS"). Accordingly,

notice u/s 143(2) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 ("the Act") was issued to the

assessee. In response to the statutory notices, Ld.AR of the assessee

attended the proceedings. It was noticed by the AO that as per computation

of income submitted by the assessee, income from LTCG of Rs.22,76,598/-

had been claimed out of the sale of shares of Eco Friendly Food Processing

Park Ltd. The AO called upon the assessee to substantiate the claim and

asked it to file various documents i.e. contract notes for each transaction,

relevant copy of Demat Account statement, relevant copy of ledgers in the

books of broker, relevant copy of Bank Account statement and details of 3|Page
 company in the scrip of which the assessee transacted. In response thereto,

the assessee filed its reply and submitted the documents. Thereafter, the AO

recorded the findings of Investigation Wing and after examining the details at

length, he proceeded to disallow the claim of exemption and made addition of

Rs.22,76,598/- u/s 68 of the Act. 5. Aggrieved against this, the assessee preferred the appeal before

Ld.CIT(A), who after considering the submissions of the assessee, dismissed

the appeal of the assessee and sustained the finding of Assessing Authority. 6. Aggrieved against the order of Ld.CIT(A), the assessee has filed the

present appeal before the Tribunal. 7. Ld. Sr. DR vehemently argued that the AO has examined the

transaction at length and also carried out certain inquiries which revealed

that LTCG as claimed by the assessee was earned by the assessee from sale

of shares of Eco Friendly Food Processing Park Ltd. by way of accommodation

and arrangements. He strongly supported the orders of the authorities below. 8. I have heard the Ld. Sr. DR and perused the material available on

record. I find that Ld.CIT(A) has given finding on facts by observing as

under:- He has not kept quiet and after having received the investigation report
 from Directorate of Investigation, Kolkata, he has made extensive
 inquiries. After investigation, he has mentioned the facts in the
 assessment order which are as under: 72, the appellant won races on two occasions and both times the winning
were from a jackpot. These receipts were tested on the touch stone of
human probability and it was found that apparent was not real. That it
was contrary to statistical theory and experience of the frequencies and
probabilities. The exceptional luck enjoyed by the appellant was held to
be beyond preponderance of probability. Hence the Hon'ble Apex Court
has affirmed the view that it would not be unreasonable to infer that the
appellant had not really participated in any of the races except to the
extent of purchasing the winning tickets after the events presumably
with unaccounted funds. When the present case is examined on the 5|Page
 touch stone of above case law, it is clear that these transactions of the
appellant can by no stretch of imagination be considered as investment
transactions. They are only make believe transaction. Hence I do not find
any infirmity in the AO taxing the receipt in this regard.

3.13 In view of the above discussion, it is apparent that lots of inquiries
have been made by the AO and substantial material is collected by him.
The following particular facts, which have been gathered by the AO are
relevant for this case. i. The assessee is not a regular investor. However, he has
 invested in the scrip i.e. M/s Eco Friendly Food Processing
 Ltd and hit the jackpot in the same. This is quite abnormal in
 view of the test of human probabilities laid down by Hon'ble
 Apex Court in the case of Durga Prasad Mor and Sumati
 Dayal. ii. The investigation report of the Income Tax Department
 suggests that the scrip i.e. M/s Eco Friendly Food Processing
 Ltd was pertaining to the paper companies, which were
 used for manipulation of shares in the LTCG Scam. iii. Unrealistic rise in the share price of M/s Eco Friendly Food
 Processing Ltd as mentioned in the assessment order.

 iv. Poor financial health of the companies as mentioned by the
 AO in the assessment order. 3.14. In view of the above facts, it is clear that the claim of LTCG of Rs.
22,76,598/- on the alleged sale of shares is basically accommodation
entry from the entry operator. The appellant is involved in the scam of
accommodation entry and there is no merit in his submission that the
sale consideration has been received through banking channel and
shares were sold in stock exchange. The shares in which he has invested
belong to paper companies. Their financial position is extremely poor and
they do not seem to be carrying out a regular business. The exponential
rise in their share price is nothing else but a manipulation by the
syndicate of operators involved in the scam. In the present case, the 6|Page
 appellant's explanation that the said receipt is on account of investment
 in shares, whereby shares of unknown company have jumped in no time
 has been totally rejected by the AO. The appellant has not at all been
 able to adduce cogent evidences in this regard. There is no economic or
 financial justification for the sale price of these shares. The fantastic sale
 price realization is not at all humanly probable, as there is no economic
 or financial basis that a share of little known company would jump so
 high. In these circumstances, I do not find any infirmity in the order of
 the AO. Also, the case laws upon which the assessee has relied have
 different set of facts, pin view of the facts discussed in earlier paras, I
 am of the considered view that the AO was justified to disallow the claim
 of long term capital gain of Rs. 22,76,598/- and to treat the same as
 income from undisclosed sources." 9. The above finding is not controverted by the assessee by placing any

contrary material on record and rebutting the finding of the authorities below.

In the absence of such evidence, I do not see any reason to interfere in the

finding of Ld.CIT(A), the same is hereby affirmed. Thus, grounds raised by the

assessee are dismissed. 10. In the result, the appeal of the assessee is dismissed. Order pronounced in the open Court on 17 th May, 2022. Sd/- (KUL BHARAT)
 JUDICIAL MEMBER

* Amit Kumar *
Copy forwarded to: