1. This petition has been filed under Section 482 of the Code of
 Criminal Procedure, 1973 ( in short, „ Cr.P.C ‟), challenging the Order
 dated 27.08.2018 (hereinafter referred to as „Impugned Order‟) passed
 the learned Additional Sessions Judge-04 & Special Judge (NDPS)
 South-East, Saket Courts, New Delhi, in CR No. 371 of 2018, titled
 Sh. Rahul Rajan & Ors. v. Sh. Sachin Kumar Parolia, whereby the
 summons issued against the respondent nos. 1 to 3, who are the
 accused nos. 4 to 6 in the complaint filed by the petitioner herein
 under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881
 (hereinafter referred to as „ NI Act ‟), being Case No. 1397/2018, has
 been set aside. Case of the petitioner in the complaint: 2. In the Complaint, it is the case of the petitioner that Right
 Choice Marketing Solutions JLT/accused no.1 is an entity with its
 office in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). It is the sales and
 marketing wing of Right Choice Builders Private Limited/respondent
 no.3 herein, a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 ,
 which was arrayed as accused no.6 in the complaint. It is stated that
 the respondent no.3 company has established various branches like
 Right Choice Properties, Right Choice Investment, etc. It is further
 contended that the respondent nos.1 and 2, along with others, who
 have been arrayed as accused nos. 2 and 3 in the complaint, are the
 common Directors of the Group, namely, Right Choice Group of
 Companies, and are responsible for the day-to-day affairs of accused
 no.1 and respondent no.3 herein. 3. It is further contended that respondent nos.1 and 2, along with
 accused nos.2 and 3, are the ones who approached different investors
 for their business and directly dealt with them regarding all
 transactions between the Right Choice Group of Companies and such
 investors. 4. It is further alleged that the respondent nos.1 and 2, along with
 accused nos.2 and 3 in the complaint, approached the petitioner herein
 with various investment ideas and brochures mentioning the schemes
 and projects of accused no.1 and respondent no.3, so as to lure the
 petitioner to invest in the same. 5. It is further alleged that in 2014, the accused no.2, representing
 himself to be the Director of Right Choice Group of Companies, Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL. M.C.3828/2019 Page 2 of 24 By:SUNIL Signing Date:23.04.2024 12:17:36 personally approached petitioner for investment(s) in the aforesaid
 entities, assuring him of high rates of return on investments. 6. It is stated that petitioner succumbed to the repeated follow-ups
 of the accused, and believing their representation of assured quarterly
 returns, invested an amount of Emirati Dirham (AED) 600,000/- in
 favour of respondent no.3 at its office in Dubai, that is, accused no.1,
 by issuing multiple cheques in the month of August 2014. It is
 asserted that the said amount was invested by the petitioner only on
 instructions of accused nos.2 and 3 and the respondent nos.1 and 2,
 who wanted the said money to be deposited in the name of accused
 no.1 stating that it is its branch office from where it would then be
 transferred to respondent no.3, a company registered in India. The said
 amount was invested on the assurance of return at the rate of 26.5%
 per annum. 7. It is stated that the accused nos.1 and 3, on express instructions
 from accused no.2, and respondent nos. 1 and 2, issued multiple post-
 dated cheques to the petitioner as monthly repayments spreading
 across the entire year of 2015. The entire principal sum of AED
 600,000/- was to become immediately payable by the accused after the
 expiry of the period of one year. 8. It is stated that the accused thereafter requested the petitioner
 not to present the cheques, and also failed to repay the principal sum
 upon the expiry of the one-year period. On an arbitrary basis, they
 paid an amount of AED 50,000/- in the form of two cheques of AED
 25,000/- each, making an assurance that the rest would be paid soon. 9. It is asserted that in January 2016, when the petitioner called Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL. M.C.3828/2019 Page 3 of 24 By:SUNIL Signing Date:23.04.2024 12:17:36 upon the accused at the head office at Pune, which is the registered
 address of respondent no.3/accused no.6, the accused nos.1 and 3, on
 express instructions from accused no.2, respondent no. 1, and
 respondent no. 2, issued ten fresh post-dated cheques towards the
 repayment of interest to the petitioner. These were spread over the
 entire year of 2016 and were issued with an undertaking that they shall
 be honoured as and when presented. 10. It is stated that petitioner presented the said cheques before the
 bankers, that is, National Bank of Abu Dhabi, and HSBC Bank,
 Middle East, and to the shock of petitioner, the said cheques were
 returned dishonoured with the remarks „insufficient funds‟. Upon
 repeated follow-ups, the accused nos.1 and 3 again paid an arbitrary
 and ad hoc amount of AED 42,500/- in bits and pieces against the
 cheques that had been returned dishonoured. 11. The petitioner asserts that being aggrieved of the aforesaid
 conduct, he initiated criminal complaints against the accused with the
 Abu Dhabi Police for the dishonour of the ten cheques. The Abu
 Dhabi Courts of First Instance, vide its order dated 26.12.2016 passed
 in Case No.13267/2016, convicted the accused no.3 and sentenced
 him with imprisonment of two years for the first set of five cheques
 totalling AED 295,089/-. The said Court, vide its order dated
 27.03.2017 passed in Case No. 1918/2017, convicted accused no.3
 and awarded a sentence of imprisonment of three years for the second
 set of five cheques totalling AED 685,625/-. It is stated that the
 accused are not travelling to Dubai out of fear of being arrested. 12. It is stated that the petitioner thereafter issued a legal notice Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL. M.C.3828/2019 Page 4 of 24 By:SUNIL Signing Date:23.04.2024 12:17:36 dated 15.03.2017 through his counsel in Abu Dhabi. The said notice
 was addressed to the accused at its Dubai office as also the India
 office and was duly served on the India office on 25.03.2017. An e-
 mail dated 19.04.2017 was also addressed to all the Directors. It is
 stated that in response to the above notices, accused no.3 contacted the
 counsel of the petitioner and assured of repayment. Terms of
 settlement were shared by the counsel for the petitioner vide e-mail
 dated 09.05.2017, however, the accused never responded to the same. 13. It is stated that petitioner then proceeded to present the cheque
 of the principal amount of AED 600,000/- drawn on the bank, namely,
 Emirates NBD Bank Gold Branch, which again was returned
 dishonoured with the remark „insufficient funds‟ vide returning memo
 dated 07.12.2017 to the bank of the petitioner, namely, ICICI Bank,
 Branch, Greater Kailash-I, New Delhi. 14. It is stated that the petitioner thereafter issued Legal Demand
 Notice dated 30.12.2017 under Section 138 of the NI Act. The said
 notice was duly delivered at the office of the accused. As the accused
 did not make the payment, complaint under Section 138 of the NI Act,
 being Case no. 1397/2018, was filed by the petitioner against the
 respondents and the accused no. 1 to 3. Proceedings before the learned Trial Court and the learned
 Revisional Court: 15. Summons on the Complaint were issued to all the accused by
 the learned Metropolitan Magistrate-04, South East District, Saket
 Courts. The same were challenged by the respondents herein by way Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL. M.C.3828/2019 Page 5 of 24 By:SUNIL Signing Date:23.04.2024 12:17:36 of a Revision Petition, being CR No. 371/2018, which has been
 allowed by the learned ASJ by way of the Impugned Order. Submissions by the learned counsel for the petitioner 16. The learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the learned
 ASJ has erred in holding that the respondent no.3 herein is a legal
 entity separate from Right Choice Marketing Solutions JLT/accused
 no.1, by merely placing reliance on the Memorandum of Association
 produced by the respondent no.2 and 3. He submits that the
 respondent no.3 and the accused no.1 are a part of a single group of
 companies and have common Directors. He submits that the accused
 no. 1 company and the respondent no. 3 company have worked in an
 orchestrated manner and form one economic entity. He submits that it
 is a fit case where this Court would lift the corporate veil. He places
 reliance on DHN Food Distributors Ltd. & Ors. v. London Borough
 of Tower Hamlets, (1976) 1 WLR 852; Delhi Development Authority
 v. Skipper Construction Co. (P) Ltd. , (2002) 9 SCC 387; and Cox
 and Kings v. SAP India Pvt. Ltd. , 2023 SCC Online SC 1634. 17. Placing reliance on the judgment of this Court in Santanu Ray
 v. Union of India , 1988 SCC OnLine Del 169, and of the High Court
 of Bombay in Amit H. Jhaveri and Ors. v. Bank of Baroda a
 Banking Company and Ors., 2010 SCC OnLine Bom 1559, he
 submits that the court must penetrate the economic actualities beneath
 the legal exterior, especially in instances of economic offences. He
 submits that the Brochure floated to attract investments, copy of email
 communications, and other evidence prove linkage between the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL. M.C.3828/2019 Page 6 of 24 By:SUNIL Signing Date:23.04.2024 12:17:36 respondent no. 3 and the accused no. 1 companies. They prove that the
 respondent no. 3 is the main beneficiary of the fraud. 18. He submits that there is an underlying principal-agent
 relationship between the respondent no. 3 and the accused no. 1.
 Placing reliance on Varsha Engineering Pvt. Ltd. v. Vijay Traders ,
 AIR 1983 Guj 166, he submits that the contract of agency can also
 manifest as an implied one and can make the principal liable to be
 sued by third parties. 19. The learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the
 respondent nos. 1 and 2, being in-charge of supervising the operations
 of the Right Choice Group of Companies, are legally accountable for
 the conduct of these companies. Placing reliance on S.P. Mani and
 Mohan Diary v. Dr. Snehalatha Elangovan , (2023) 10 SCC 685, he
 submits that once the complainant has made specific averments in the
 complaint to make the accused vicariously liable, it is for the accused
 to disprove the same. He submits that, in the present case, the
 respondent nos. 1 and 2 have failed to establish that the offence was
 committed without their knowledge. 20. The learned counsel for the petitioner submits that as the
 accused no.1 and the respondent no.3 company are sisters companies,
 in light of the judgement of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh in Sunrise Oleo Chemicals Ltd. v. K.M. Enterprises , 2003 SCC OnLine
 AP 95, they are liable to be proceeded against for the dishonour of the
 cheque though the cheque was issued in the name of the accused no. 1. Submissions by the learned counsel for the respondents 21. The learned counsel for the respondents submits that apart from
 vague and unsubstantiated averments in the complaint, no material has
 been placed on record by the petitioner to substantiate his averments
 that the respondent nos. 1 and 2 have any say in the management of
 the accused no. 1 company. 22. He submits that the accused no. 1 and respondent no. 3 are
 distinct companies having separate corporate entities. He submits that
 the respondent nos. 1 and 2 are not the Directors of the accused no. 1
 company, nor are they the signatories of the cheque in question. He
 submits that therefore, neither of the respondents can be made an
 accused for the dishonour of the cheque issued by the accused no. 1. Analysis & Findings 23. I have considered the submissions made the learned counsels
 for the parties. 24. Section 141 of the NI Act reads as under: Explanation.-- For the purposes of this
 section, -- 25. A reading of the above would show that in case the offence
 under Section 138 of the NI Act is committed by a Company, Section
 141 of the NI Act creates a vicarious liability on the persons who are
 in charge of and responsible for the day-to-day affairs of the Company
 or, being the officers of the Company, were negligent or otherwise
 connived in the commission of the offence by the Company. It is in
 two parts. While sub-section (1) of Section 141 of the NI Act makes
 "every person", who, at the time the offence was committed, was in
 charge of and responsible for the day-to-day affairs and conduct of the Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL. M.C.3828/2019 Page 9 of 24 By:SUNIL Signing Date:23.04.2024 12:17:36 business of the company, to be "deemed to be guilty of the offence",
 unless he proves that the offence was committed without his
 knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the
 commission of such an offence, sub-section (2) of Section 141 makes
 any director, manager, secretary, or other officer of the Company,
 with whose consent or connivance of or due to whose neglect the
 offence has been committed by the company, to be deemed to be
 liable to be proceeded against and punished under Section 138 of the
 NI Act along with the Company. 26. The Supreme Court in its decision in S.P.Mani & Mohan Diary (supra), explained the difference between persons on whom vicarious
 liability is cast under sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) of Section
 141 of the NI Act, as under:- section (2), if it is proved that the offence was
 committed with the consent or connivance of
 or was attributable to the neglect on the part
 of any Director, manager, secretary or other
 officer of the company, such person would also
 be deemed to be guilty for that offence. Obviously, the burden of alleging and proving
 consent, connivance or neglect on the part of
 any Director, etc. would rest upon the
 complainant. The non obstante clause with
 which sub-section (2) opens indicates that the
 deeming provision is distinct and different
 from the deeming provision in sub-section (1)
 in which the office or designation of the person
 in charge of and responsible to the company
 for the conduct of its business is immaterial. 28. While the essential element for implicating
 a person under sub-section (1) is his or her
 being in charge of and responsible to the
 company in the conduct of its business at the
 time of commission of the offence, the
 emphasis in sub-section (2) is upon the
 holding of an office and consent, connivance
 or negligence of such officer irrespective of his
 or her being or not being actually in charge of
 and responsible to the company in the conduct
 of its business. Thus, the important and
 distinguishing feature in sub-section (1) is the
 control of a responsible person over the affairs
 of the company rather than his holding of an
 office or his designation, while the liability
 under sub-section (2) arises out of holding an
 office and consent, connivance or neglect. 29. While all the persons covered by sub- section (1) and sub-section (2) are liable to be
 proceeded against and also punished upon the
 proof of their being either in charge of and
 responsible to the company in the conduct of
 its business or of their holding of the office
 and having been guilty of consent, connivance
 or neglect in the matter of commission of the
 offence by the company, the person covered by
 sub-section (1) may, by virtue of the first
 proviso, escape only punishment if he proves
 that the offence was committed without his
 knowledge or despite his due diligence. 30. As for the requisite evidence, the burden
 upon the prosecution would be discharged
 under sub-section (1) when a person is proved
 to be in charge of and responsible to the
 company in the conduct of its business and
 would shift upon the accused to prove that he
 was ignorant or diligent, if that be his defence;
 whereas under sub-section (2) the prosecution
 would be required to allege and prove the
 consent, connivance or neglect and holding of
 the office by the accused. There is nothing to
 suggest that the same person cannot be made
 to face the prosecution either under sub- section (1) or sub-section (2) or both. 31. A Director or manager can be arraigned
 and proved to be guilty as the person in
 charge of and responsible to the company as
 well as the Director of the company who, as
 such, might have consented to, connived at or
 been negligent in respect of the offence of
 dishonour of cheque, be logically deduced that
 a person can be arraigned in a complaint as
 the accused along with the company if it prima
 facie appears that he was in charge of and
 responsible to the company for the conduct of
 its business, although he may or may not be or
 may not have continued to be a Director or
 other officer of the company, as mentioned in
 sub-section (2). It would be sufficient if the
 complaint indicates that such person has been
 arraigned on the basis of averments which
 disclose him or her to be the person in charge
 of and responsible to the company in the
 conduct of its business at the time the offence
 was committed. 32. Evidently, a person who signs the cheque
 or who has the authority to sign the cheque for
 and on behalf of the company, regardless of
 his office or capacity, can, prima facie, be
 assumed to be in charge of and responsible to
 the company in the conduct of its business. And, where such person is prosecuted, then, if
 it be his defence that the offence was
 committed without his or her knowledge or
 that he or she has exercised all due diligence
 to prevent the commission of such offence, the
 burden to prove that would be on him or her
 and can only be discharged at the stage of
 evidence." 27. In S.P.Mani & Mohan Diary (supra), the Supreme Court culled
 out the principles that govern the liability of persons covered under Section 141 of the NI Act, as under: In such circumstances, the complainant is
 expected to allege that the persons named in
 the complaint are in charge of the affairs of Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL. M.C.3828/2019 Page 14 of 24 By:SUNIL Signing Date:23.04.2024 12:17:36 the company/firm. It is only the Directors of
 the company or the partners of the firm, as the
 case may be, who have the special knowledge
 about the role they had played in the company
 or the partners in a firm to show before the
 court that at the relevant point of time they
 were not in charge of the affairs of the
 company. Advertence to Sections 138 and Section 141 respectively of the NI Act shows
 that on the other elements of an offence under Section 138 being satisfied, the burden is on
 the Board of Directors or the officers in
 charge of the affairs of the company/partners
 of a firm to show that they were not liable to
 be convicted. The existence of any special
 circumstance that makes them not liable is
 something that is peculiarly within their
 knowledge and it is for them to establish at the
 trial to show that at the relevant time they
 were not in charge of the affairs of the
 company or the firm. 58.3. Needless to say, the final judgement and
 order would depend on the evidence adduced. Criminal liability is attracted only on those,
 who at the time of commission of the offence,
 were in charge of and were responsible for the
 conduct of the business of the firm. But
 vicarious criminal liability can be inferred
 against the partners of a firm when it is
 specifically averred in the complaint about the
 status of the partners „qua‟ the firm. This
 would make them liable to face the
 prosecution but it does not lead to automatic
 conviction. Hence, they are not adversely
 prejudiced if they are eventually found to be
 not guilty, as a necessary consequence thereof
 would be acquittal. 58.4. If any Director wants the process to be
 quashed by filing a petition under Section 482
 of the Code on the ground that only a bald
 averment is made in the complaint and that
 he/she is really not concerned with the
 issuance of the cheque, he/she must in order to
 persuade the High Court to quash the process
 either furnish some sterling incontrovertible Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL. M.C.3828/2019 Page 15 of 24 By:SUNIL Signing Date:23.04.2024 12:17:36 material or acceptable circumstances to
 substantiate his/her contention. He/she must
 make out a case that making him/her stand the
 trial would be an abuse of process of Court." 28. Let us now test the complaint filed by the petitioner as against
 the respondents herein, on the above parameters. 29. The petitioner, in his complaint, states that the accused no. 1
 and the respondent no. 3 are a „corporate entity under the group of
 Companies namely, the Right Choice Group‟. The complainant further
 admits that the accused no. 1 is an entity having its office in the
 United Arab Emirates, however, goes on to state that it is a „sales and
 marketing wing‟ of the respondent no. 3, a company incorporated
 under the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 . The
 complainant states that there are other „branches‟ established by the
 respondent no. 3 catering to the demands of different sectors, like
 Right Choice Properties and Right Choice Investment, etc.. Further,
 the complainant has placed reliance on the Brochure allegedly handed
 over by accused nos. 2 and 3 and respondent nos. 1 and 2 herein to the
 complainant while trying to lure the complainant into investing in the
 Right Choice Group of Companies. The said Brochure, inter alia,
 states as follows: (Emphasis supplied) 30. The Brochure, therefore, clearly states that the Right Choice
 Group is a group of seven companies, which in law would mean that
 each of them is a distinct and separate legal entity, though part of a
 group. 31. In the complaint, the petitioner also states that he has annexed
 the Master Data of the respondent no. 3 and the accused no. 1,
 however, what has been annexed with the present petition is only the
 copy of the Master Data of the respondent no. 3. 32. The learned ASJ, in its Impugned Order, has recorded that there
 is nothing on record to establish that the respondent no. 3 herein and
 the accused no. 1 are the same entity. Therefore, apart from a mere
 bald assertion in the complaint that the accused no. 1 is the sales and
 marketing wing of respondent no. 3 or is a branch established by
 respondent no. 3, no material has been placed on record by the
 petitioner to prove the said assertion. 33. On the other hand, from the material placed on record by the
 petitioner itself, it is established that the accused no. 1 and the
 respondent no. 3 are separate legal entities; one registered in Dubai
 and the other registered in India. The Brochure itself states that they
 are separate companies though part of the same group. 34. Section 141 of the NI Act is neither intended nor extends the
 vicarious liability on the group companies. It is intended to create
 vicarious liability only on the persons and officers who are either in-
 charge of the company, which is the main accused, or have connived Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL. M.C.3828/2019 Page 17 of 24 By:SUNIL Signing Date:23.04.2024 12:17:36 or are negligent, resulting in the accused company committing the
 offence under Section 138 of the NI Act. Section 141 of the NI Act,
 therefore, cannot extend to the group companies. 35. Section 138 of the NI Act, in fact, creates liability only on the
 „drawer of the cheque‟. As it creates a criminal liability, there is no
 scope of lifting of the corporate veil. It is only because of the
 application of Section 141 of the NI Act, that the liability, in case the
 offence under Section 138 of the NI Act is committed by a company,
 has been extended by a deeming fiction on the person in-charge of or
 holding an office, making them equally liable for the offence. The said
 provision, however, cannot extend to other corporate entities or group
 of companies. 36. This Court in Yashovardhan Birla v. CECIL Webber
 Engineering Ltd. , 2023 SCC OnLine Del 2127, has reiterated that
 large business conglomerates may have a number of companies under
 them, which may be ultimately managed by a particular family or
 group of investors, but to run the day-to-day affairs, officers and
 professionals are appointed in such companies. In such cases, the head
 of the Company cannot be made liable and taken into the purview of Section 141 of the NI Act, doing so would unfairly and unnecessarily
 expand the provisions of vicarious liability under the NI Act . This
 Court observed as under: 37. Reliance of the petitioner on Varsha Engineering Pvt. Ltd. (Supra), also cannot be accepted as the concept of agency would have
 no application to Sections 138 and 141 of the NI Act. 38. In view of the above, the respondent no. 3 could not have been
 proceeded against only on the allegation that it is a group company of
 the accused no. 1, which is the drawer of the cheque in question. 39. As far as respondent nos. 1 and 2 are concerned, the petitioner,
 in the complaint, alleges that respondent nos. 1 and 2 are the common
 Directors of the group, namely, Right Choice Group of Companies,
 and are responsible for the day-to-day affairs of the group including
 those of accused no. 1. It is further alleged that they had, along with
 accused nos. 2 and 3, approached the petitioner with various Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL. M.C.3828/2019 Page 20 of 24 By:SUNIL Signing Date:23.04.2024 12:17:36 investment proposals. It is alleged that it is on the instructions, inter
 alia, of respondent nos. 1 and 2, that the petitioner invested an amount
 of 6,00,000 AED in the accused no. 1, on the assurance of return at the
 rate of 26.5% per annum. It is further alleged that multiple post-dated
 cheques for the return of investment and the interest thereon were
 issued by accused nos. 1 and 3 „with express instructions from
 accused nos. 2, 4, and 5‟, that is, accused no. 2, respondent nos. 1 and
 2 herein. The petitioner then goes on to say that „the accused persons‟
 made a request to the petitioner not to present the cheques. It is further
 stated that accused nos. 1 and 3 „on express instructions of accused
 nos. 2, 4, and 5‟ issued 10 fresh post-dated cheques towards the
 repayment of interest. It is stated that the cheques in question were
 presented by the petitioner for encashment on express instructions
 from, inter alia, respondent nos. 1 and 2 herein. The petitioner, in the
 complaint, states as follows: 40. The learned ASJ in the Impugned Order records that it is only
 accused nos. 2 and 3 who are the Directors of the accused nos. 1. It
 held that there is no document to show that respondent no.1 and 2 are
 the Directors of accused no.1, that is, Right Choice Marketing
 Solution JLT. The learned ASJ held as follows: 41. Even in the present petition, the petitioner has placed no
 document on record to show that the respondent nos. 1 and 2 were the
 Directors of the accused no. 1, which is the drawer of the cheque.
 There is no averment in the complaint that the respondent nos. 1 and 2
 were persons in-charge of or responsible to the accused no.1 for the
 conduct of its business. Apart from stating that the respondent nos. 1
 and 2 have acted in connivance with accused nos. 1 and 3 or that the
 accused no. 3 has acted on their express instructions, there is no
 material placed on record by the petitioner for the said averment. 42. The only reliance of the petitioner even in the present petition is
 on the alleged LinkedIn profile of respondent no. 1, which inter alia Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL. M.C.3828/2019 Page 22 of 24 By:SUNIL Signing Date:23.04.2024 12:17:36 claims respondent no. 1 to be the Director of the Right Choice Group.
 However, accused no. 1 is not the Right Choice Group but Right
 Choice Marketing Solutions JLT. 43. The complaint is also lacking in the basic averments of Section
 141 of the NI Act against the respondent nos. 1 and 2, as have been
 culled out by the Supreme Court in S.P. Mani and Mohan Diary (Supra) for fastening liability under Section 138 of the NI Act on
 persons other than the Company. Therefore, even tested on the
 parameters of Section 141 of the NI Act, as explained by the Supreme
 Court in S.P. Mani and Mohan Diary (Supra), respondent nos. 1 and
 2 cannot be fastened with the vicarious liability of the dishonour of the
 cheque issued by accused no. 1 under the signatures of accused no. 3. 44. In Sunrise Oleo Chemicals Ltd. (Supra), the Court was
 considering a case where the second accused was the Managing
 Director of M/s Sunrise Oleo Chemicals Ltd., which owed the debt,
 and was also the signatory of the cheque in question, which had been
 issued from the account maintained by Sunrise Oils Mills Limited. It
 was held that the second accused was, therefore, representing both
 companies and was the Managing Director of both the companies.
 Even when the notice was issued post the dishonour of the cheque,
 Sunrise Oleo Chemicals Ltd., in its reply signed by the second
 accused, raised no objection on the premise that it is not the drawer of
 the cheque. It was on those peculiar facts that the Court held that the
 first accused company cannot escape liability on the premise that it is
 not the maker or drawer of the cheque. 45. In Amit H. Jhaveri & Ors. (Supra), the Court was considering Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL. M.C.3828/2019 Page 23 of 24 By:SUNIL Signing Date:23.04.2024 12:17:36 whether a financial assistance obtained by a person through an
 unlawful transaction and where no documents were executed,
 proceedings before the DRT was maintainable. The said judgment can
 have no application to the facts of the present case wherein statutory
 liability for dishonour of the cheque is created on the drawer of the
 cheque, and where the drawer of a cheque is a company, vicariously
 on the persons in-charge of or responsible for the conduct of the
 company, or on officers of the Company because of whose neglect or
 connivance the offence is committed by the Company. Conclusion 46. In light of the above, I do not find any merit in the challenge
 made by the petitioner in the present petition. 47. Accordingly, the petition is dismissed. 48. There shall be no orders as to costs. NAVIN CHAWLA, J
 APRIL 22, 2024/rv/RP/AS Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed CRL. M.C.3828/2019 Page 24 of 24 By:SUNIL Signing Date:23.04.2024 12:17:36