> 

 

Title : Further discussion on the motion for consideration of the Actuaries Bill, 2005 moved by Shri Pawan Kumar Bansal on 28 July, 2006 ( Bill Passed). MR. DEPUTY-SPEAKER: The House shall now take up Item No.21 – further consideration of Actuaries Bill, 2005. The time allotted for this was two hours and we had already taken 18 minutes. The balance left is 1 hour 42 minutes. I now request Shri K.S. Rao to speak on this Bill. SHRI K.S. RAO ( ELURU ): Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, the Actuaries Bill now introduced by the hon. Minister is one of the very important Bills. In fact, this should have come a long time back. Anyway, wisdom prevailed and the Bill is brought now. This Bill has got a lot of importance. The very meaning of actuary is one who calculates the effect of today’s decision after a long time[KMR28] . Suppose, if we start saving and if somebody gives a proposition to save one rupee per day, and some other person would come with a proposition that after his retirement, he would be paid Rs.1,000 every month, it is not believable.  But actually when somebody calculates as to what would be the impact of saving one rupee per day, after 50 years, he may get more than Rs.1,000 every month as long he lives.  That is the role of the actuary, who calculates the effect of today’s decision after a period.  The importance has now come and the Government has gone into it because of the insurance.  Till the other day, life insurance is in the hands of the Government of India only.  It was not open to the private sector earlier.  Premium was being charged for a long time in the same way. They did not go into the minute details.  They did not go as effectively as they should.  The longevity of a person 40 years back is totally different from the longevity of a person today.  The calculations made in those days to fix a premium  of a person in insuring his life is different from what it is today. Now, we are allowing the private sector to enter into the insurance sector.  They would calculate all those things.  These actuaries are in great number.  They are advanced to a great extent in the Western and developed countries. They would easily calculate and then, they would fix up a less premium  than the Government or the LIC fixes.  Naturally, the entire business would go to them and our organisation would suffer. Shri Gurudas Dasgupta and Communist friends were making hell of a noise.  We all now about the percentage of interest to be paid on Provident Fund.  I do understand their intention behind it and that is that a worker should not suffer.  That is definite.  But the suggestion by the Government of India is, if we were to keep the entire fund, then, we would not be able to keep up our commitments to pay salaries, pension and all that.  They draw 50 per cent of the pension at the end of the retirement. Our experience shows that there is a deficit of more than Rs.10,000 crore, which has become a burden for the Government of India to pay from the Exchequer.  It cannot be paid out of the earning from the Provident Fund that is there with the Government. Now, the actuaries have thought over the issue and they gave a proposal. All the funds of the employees would be handed over to the fund manager, who will manage the fund with some regulations so that the employees are secured of benefits, they are secured of how much amount they would get afterwards.  All these things are calculated by the actuaries only.  This is to be done in a scientific way.  This requires knowledge in statistics, mathematics, economics, finance, law, marketing and management.  Only if they know all these things, only then, they would easily calculate. I would like to quote another instance. As early as 1985, I was suggesting to the then Prime Minister, Shri Rajiv Gandhi that growth of population is a big issue in the country  and asked him to announce a scheme to the effect that if a couple were to agree to have only one child, at the time of marriage of that child, the Government of India would pay Rs.1 lakh.  Nobody would believe it.  All that the Government of India was paying in those days was Rs.3,000 per head.  I would give the calculation.  Now, we have 1,100 million people in the country and if the age group of 25 and 36 were to be 200 million, that means, there are 100 million couples in the country[s29] . If those people were to have a commitment that they would not have more than one child, we could deposit Rs.3,000 in their account which would become Rs. 1 lakh by the time the child attains the age of marriage. The burden on the Government of India will be – whether it will be shared by the Government of India and the State Governments or not – Rs.3,000 crore per year by which we can control the entire population growth, and that would solve several problems. These people will calculate the amount of fertility, how it is coming down, what is the probability of the birth of children, etc. All these things will be done by the actuaries. One good thing in the country now is that we have legislated Bills on Chartered Accountants of India, on Cost and Accountants of India, on Company Secretaries of India. All these organizations are self-financing. There is no burden on the Government; not a single rupee is to be spent. Similarly in the case of actuaries, it will be self-financing. All that we have to do is to give them freedom, and also a regulatory mechanism from the Government of India. If these were to be done, many problems will get solved. We do not know; if one were to purchase a house for Rs.10 lakh, one may think that he may not be able to pay Rs.10 lakh. You will not think of purchasing the house at all. But in that case, the actuaries will come into the field and say that you have to pay Rs.2,000-Rs.3,000 per month, you will be encouraged to purchase the house and thus, the problem of housing will be solved. That will increase the economic growth. What is required for the country? If you say that America is rich, what is rich in it? A number of buildings are there; roads are there; infrastructure is there; all the facilities are there. This is only to motivate the person to work and create wealth. That is what wealth is and that is what development of the nation is. What is required is ingenuity of the human being that should be utilized. The House should make laws in such a manner that would motivate the people to work. Then our job is done. We do not need to break our heads – to go to the field and do everything regularly. If we limit ourselves in bringing forward right legislations to motivate citizens of this country to work hard and generate wealth, that will take care of them, their families and thus, they will be earning for themselves and also for the nation. Then the problem will be solved in many ways. Actuarial science is the backbone not only for insurance but also for several other issues, as I told, like population control, financial services, pension and gratuity, maintaining PF, etc. Only thing is that the number of people who are there now and who think in those terms are very little – about 2,500 people are only there who are well-versed in this who are there in this country. This has to be increased. So the Government has to take up and give this assignment to the Actuarial Society which is becoming an Institution of Actuaries, to try and have more and more actuaries so that this can spread not only in one field, but also in different fields of activities in this country. I do not want to take more time of the House. I can only say that this Bill is going to solve several problems that the country is facing today; it is in the interest of the nation; all of us unanimously, irrespective of the Party to which one belongs, should support this Bill. I do understand that by virtue of being in the Opposition, they may criticize saying that this Bill is not a foolproof one, etc. For that matter, no Bill is foolproof. When we legislate a Bill, we will see the experience and the Government may come up with some amendment later, to improve the Bill. In a similar way, I would request the hon. Minister, not to get satisfied only with the passage of the Bill, but to monitor how effective it is; and if necessary, he may bring in some amendments later. Basically if something should benefit the nation, every one of us have to have character and integrity. If these are lacking, no Bill will do any good to the nation. Similar is the case with Actuaries Bill. I wish that he may incorporate somewhere in the Bill that the members that are being selected for actuaries either on the Board or somewhere, their integrity should be taken into account. I wish that he incorporates it now or he can do that later also, which is regarding the integrity of the members of the Board. With these words, I congratulate the Minister; I thank you, Sir, for having given me the opportunity. SHRI VARKALA RADHAKRISHNAN ( CHIRAYINKIL ): Sir, I have no objection in passing the Bill but I will have to make some remarks about the circumstances under which this Bill is being legislated. In the first place, we all know that there were only six nationalised insurance companies in India, which were purely privatised by the Central Government and the functions of actuaries were being done by them also. There was no difficulty at all. A new legislation was not required because at that time there were only six nationalised companies.  An institute was also not necessary.  After globalisation we have come to a stage that we will have to bring in a new legislation which must be exhaustive to define the work done by actuaries.  Previously, there was an actuarial society registered under the Societies Registration Act , which had its Head Office in Mumbai.  The Head Office of the Institute of Actuaries is yet to be decided by the Central Government.  In the normal course, I think it will be in Delhi.  I am not concerned with the place as to where will the headquarters function but I am concerned about other aspects. All these functions were being managed by the actuarial society. They were doing this job perfectly well.  Now, a situation has come where because of privatisation,  21 new private companies have come into the field.  The workload has grown and also the area of operation got expanded.  So, under such circumstances, a body functioning as a society registered under Societies Act is not enough. So, the Government thought of bringing a new legislation covering the entire field. This Bill is being brought for that purpose. As per the provisions of the Bill, a new institute will come into force whose headquarters will be decided later on.  The Actuarial Society was doing this job.  All their assets and liabilities will be dissolved.  The society itself will be dissolved and will be merged.  There is one fundamental defect in this statute, which I must point out.  It is with regard to Section 32. This is a new arrangement.  A new mechanism is evolved for doing a profession.  New professionals will come into play under the provision of the statute and there will be examination and declaration of assets.  People will be coming as new entrants.  We have two kinds of members; fellow members and associate members.  Associate members will not get the right to vote but the fellow members will get the right to vote.  In this context, when a new mechanism is evolved, when a new arrangement is made in the functioning of a particular profession, why should it be brought under a different statute?  Under the provision of the statute, the final decision is to be taken by the Appellate Authority. The Appellate Authority is the authority, which will take a final decision with regard to implementation of the statute. I will read Section 32: There is one group which says that actuary profession will function best if organised under self-regulation.  They say, "You leave it to the private sector. Let them organise this.  Let it function without any Government control".  It is because no financial assistance should go from the Government.  It should be within a non-governmental framework and that it should function under self-regulation. But I am of the view that actuarial profession can function in a better manner if it is governed by an Act of Parliament.  My humble opinion is that actuarial profession should be regulated, as has been stated by some other hon. Members, on the lines of other professional bodies, like the Institute of Chartered Accountants, Institute of Cost & Work Accountants and the Institute of Company Secretaries, by setting up a professional statutory body. It would certainly help in advancement of the profession and will also contribute in improving the status of actuaries. The second point was that other comparable professional bodies are self-financing and that it would be inappropriate to sustain the new body under the Government assistance.  There also I differ from them.  My opinion is that the Institute will have adequate in-built mechanism in place to function without any Government assistance after a short span of time.  I would like to know from the hon. Minister as to how soon the Institute will become self-sustainable. The Bill, of course, gives enough freedom to the Institute to perform its functions.  To become an actuary, a person must be recognized by the institute.  This is a special provision which has been made, which is really needed.  By defining "actuary" all ambiguities have been removed. There is an opinion that this Bill will empower bureaucrats, who have no knowledge of the profession and that they will meddle in the affairs of this body also as they do in some other professional bodies. But I am of the opinion that providing legislative backing to the actuaries will increase the credibility of the institution.  With the entry of private players, within last three years, more than 3,000 students have enrolled for pursuing actuarial studies.  This shows how much faith the people have in this service.  Therefore, legislative backing is necessary. I would like to draw the attention of the Minister towards the need for computation of complete mortality and morbidity table.  There is a need to establish a permanent Mortality and Morbidity Investigation Bureau on the pattern which exists in developed countries.  This would reduce the premium and improve the basic facilities for the customers of insurance, pension, and health industries.  The move will also benefit employees of the corporates.  The mortality and morbidity table is key to the pricing of any insurance and pension product, as these kinds of long-term products are calculated on the basis of the average longevity of the population.  I would be obliged if the Minister takes steps in this regard. I support the Bill. SHRI SURAVARAM SUDHAKAR REDDY ( NALGONDA ): Sir, I thank you very much for giving me this opportunity.  I will try to be brief.  I stand to support the Bill.  As it has been mentioned in the Statement of Objects and Reasons, there are six nationalised insurance companies besides 21 private sector companies that have started transacting insurance business also in the country.    Besides their traditional responsibility, Actuaries life and General Insurance Business has got many other responsibilities.   They have to ensure mainly solvency margin and other insurance risks like legal liability, loss of profit, etc.  They also define the risk factors, advise on the premia to be charged and re-insurance to be purchased, calculate reserve for outstanding claims and carry out financial modelling.    This is a very important responsibility. Sir, economic reforms are going on in a big way in our country. When such big scale economic reforms are on the march, there is a necessity that the corporate sector should be transparent and there should be more legal standards.  So, the Actuaries have to play a very important role.  I believe there should be more stringent punishment for the professional misconduct than what has been prescribed in the Bill. 15.07 hrs.                              (Shri Arjun Sethi in the Chair) 

            Sir, the present Bill transforming from the Actuarial Society of India, which  was registered under the Societies of Registration Act , now to be managed as Actuarial profession in India through this Institute is a good proposition and this will help to regulate the Actuaries.   But, I believe that in the recent period, there are several complaints about the misconduct about this type of profession like auditors and people who are involved in this type of business.   So, there is a necessity to regulate more seriously and the Government should take more serious view of this.  This proposed Bill would help to give the responsibility for conducting the examination of profession of Actuaries.   I think it is being left to this Institute. But instead the Government should come out with a proper examination system of this and there should be more standard of education for the Actuaries.   After dissolving the Actuarial Society of India and transfer of assets and liabilities of the said Society, it is not only the question of this thing but about the profession as such, and to raise the general standards of this profession. For that, there should be more clarity and, I believe the new Institute should be given that responsibility.   I also believe that the nominated members should be as less as possible in these types of institutes.  Generally, the number of nominated members is on the rise. Here, it may be comparatively less than many other organisations but I believe, it should be only nominal. The nominated members should be less in number and elected members should be more so that the autonomy of this Institute can be successfully defended. SHRI BIKRAM KESHARI DEO ( KALAHANDI ): Sir, I rise not to oppose the Bill but to support the Bill because this is a new stream of practice –Actuarial Science which will come into action after this Bill is passed by the House. Sir, this is a new stream of practice to get and regulate the financial activities in the future for insurance sector.  But here I would like to say that why just confine Actuarial Science to the insurance sector only because in 2002 when the Bill was first introduced, it was referred to the Standing Committee[R35] . Then the Standing Committee formed a Committee under Shri Narasimham to give a report on it. The report was given. Then, the suggestions that have come are that the actuarial science should not be limited to the Insurance Sector only; it should be linked to other sectors because this science usually relates to the activity of the Actuaries. It is to predict the future and not to give the truthful or rightful picture of what is going to happen. The right picture is not supposed to be given. It is just supposed to predict the losses or the profits that a particular institution is going to have. Therefore, this type of a science is a new type of  science. It started in Britain.   The Institute of Actuaries of the United Kingdom was established in 1848. The Parliament never did this through an Act of Parliament. It was incorporated under the Royal Charter of the Privy Council in 1884. The Institute was not established under an Act of Parliament. Similarly, in Australia, it is a company. The Institute of Actuaries is a company. In the United States of America, the Society of Actuaries is a Society having a Constitution. So, the aspect of the Actuaries is not a new thing to the developed world or to this world today. This has been in vogue and practice in other countries and in other developing countries as well. But today the situation has necessitated it to be introduced in India and to make the profession a legal and futuristic one. It is to predict the profession so that proper models could be developed for various programmes, mainly, to make the Insurance Sector a success. You will see that after the Insurance Regulatory Authority was formed, the Government allowed 26 per cent Foreign Direct Investment. A lot of players have come from abroad. A lot of companies have come from abroad. But when the debate took place in the House, at that time, the Minister in charge of it promised and said that the private sector, which would be entering the Insurance market, would go to the rural areas and get involved in the rural projects like crop insurance etc. But, out of the experience, it has been seen that the big private  players have  not gone into the rural insurance sector like farming and agriculture. They have not yet got into it. So, it is high time to regulate the activities. To predict a good future for the Insurance Sector, the Actuaries will be responsible. Though it is a Society, yet this is a new beginning for India.   By this Bill, they are going to end up with a Society. A new Act is going to be made by Parliament. I hope it will surely be passed. I also hope that the  Actuaries will give a good service to the country and make predictions. With these words, I conclude. SHRI KHARABELA SWAIN ( BALASORE ): Sir, at the outset, I would like to say that Shri K.S. Rao should not have any apprehension that I will oppose the Bill. We support it. The Bill was  initiated during the time of the NDA Government. The Standing Committee on Finance deliberated it. Since the House was dissolved, it was not piloted in this House. So, I, as a Member of the Standing Committee on Finance, also support it. I do not have much to say. I must say that it is absolutely required. This actuarial work is a very highly specialised work. So, it cannot be left to a Cooperative Society like the Actuarial Society of India.  It is absolutely required that it should have an Institute like the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. So, an Institute of Actuaries is going to be established on the lines of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. But I just have got two or three points to make. Very briefly, I will mention them. I am very happy that the provision  for a Quality Review Board has been provided in this Bill. The Quality Review Board will fix standards. It is absolutely required to fix standards for an Institute[R36] . What for has it been created? So, fixation of the standard and reviewing of the quality of the services provided by the Institute is the job of the Quality Review Board and I appreciate that this has been incorporated in this Bill. The second point is this. I am very happy that a provision to constitute a Disciplinary Committee to deal with the misconduct of the members of this Institute has been provided in the Bill. As a Member of the Joint Parliamentary Committee set up to inquire into the Stock Market Scam, we found that many of the Chartered Accountants, who are actually required to set the records right, in collusion with corporate houses, saw to it that corporate houses misappropriated the money from the Stock Market. So, when we, in the Committee, wanted to know why any disciplinary action has not been taken against those Chartered Accountants, we came to know that those Chartered Accountants themselves were part of the Disciplinary Committee. So, even when the Disciplinary Committee asked and was given abundant evidence of wrongdoing by those Chartered Accountants, still no action was taken against them. Now, in the amended Act, a Disciplinary Action Committee has been provided and that has been provided in this Bill also. I am very happy that this provision has been included here because you know pretty well that whatever mistake a person might commit, he will not take action against himself. Sir, I will now make two suggestions. Clause 58 (1) of this Bill says: For that, this fine has been provided. Sir, a question was raised about the finances of the Institute, which would come into force after this.  It is with a sense of great satisfaction that I have to report to the House that even the Actuarial Society of India, which has functioned so far, has been self-sustaining. Knowing that such an Institute which is now being established, would be  self-sustaining, this clause  22 has been added.  But to cover any eventuality, to cover any contingency where there may be need of some grant etc., we have provided for that. Section 22 says: 16.00 hrs 

  

Clause 55 –               Power of Central Government to make rules Amendment made :