1. Rajeev Saumitra, plaintiff has filed the present suit for, inter alia,
declaration, rendition of account, damages, permanent and mandatory
injunctions against the three defendants namely, (i) Ms.Neetu Singh (ii) M/s. K.D.Campus Pvt. Ltd. (iii) M/s. Paramount Coaching Centre
Pvt. Ltd. 2. By way of this order, I propose to decide the pending application
being I.A. No.17545/2015, under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 CPC filed
by the plaintiff. 3. The defendant No.3 is a private limited company incorporated
under the Companies Act, 1956 vide certificate of incorporation dated
8th December, 2009. The plaintiff and his wife, defendant No.1 are CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 1 of 83 holding 50% share each of defendant No.3 who is involved in the
business of imparting education, training and preparation for various
national competitive examinations. 4. There is a dispute between the plaintiff and defendant No.1 as to
who adopted the mark PARAMOUNT prior in times. However, it is not
in dispute that in 2009, the said mark became the property of
defendant No.3-Company on its incorporation. 5. It is the case of the plaintiff that he began the business of
imparting education under the banner of Paramount Coaching Centre in
January, 2005 as a sole proprietor. The plaintiff has pointed out few
documents in order to show that prior to incorporation of defendant No.3
in the year 2005, the plaintiff opened a bank account with the Bank of
Maharashtra as the sole proprietor of Paramount Coaching Centre. On
the other hand, defendant No.1 in support of her claim for ownership of
the name PARAMOUNT has relied upon a document in order to show the
use of the name Paramount prior to 2005 of her reply to the plaintiff's
injunction application. The plaintiff submits that the said document is
purporting to be a self-serving advertisement; the same is neither dated
nor does it demonstrate as to where this advertisement appeared and it
also does not prove that defendant No.1 is the owner of the mark
PARAMOUNT. In the month of July, 2005, the defendant No.1 came in
contact with plaintiff looking for a job and requested the plaintiff to allow
her to teach English subject in his coaching institute as she was in dire
need of financial assistance to carry on her livelihood. The plaintiff
allowed the defendant No.1 to take English Classes in his coaching
centre. He was a bachelor and earning handsome amount at that time. After expiry of approximately 8-9 months, defendant No.1
expressed her willingness to get married with the plaintiff. She CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 2 of 83 confirmed that she was spinster and unmarried; her father had expired
and there was an old widow mother having six daughters and one
brother. Believing upon her statement, the plaintiff got married with
defendant No.1 on 12th March, 2006. After the marriage, as alleged by
the plaintiff, she started hatching a conspiracy to get inducted her
sisters and family members in Coaching Centre of the plaintiff and on
her insistence, the proprietorship concern, namely, Paramount Coaching
Centre was converted into a Private Limited Company, i.e. defendant
No.3. She was inducted as a Director of defendant No.3 and thus, both
the husband and wife have shareholding to the extent of 50:50. The
plaintiff prior to incorporation of defendant No.3 also formed an
educational society in 2007 under the name 'Paramount Zenith Society'. 6. The main reason for the present litigation is that defendant No.1
who is the wife of the plaintiff incorporated another company being the
Director of defendant No.3-Company under the name of K.D. Campus
Pvt. Ltd. (defendant No.2). She is the founder and director of the
company for the purposes of competing with defendant No.3. The said
company of defendant No.2 was incorporated by defendant No.1 in
February, 2015 for the purposes of competing with and diverting the
business, staff, students and monies of defendant No.3. It is also
involved in imparting education, training and preparation for various
national examinations. 7. The plaintiff alleges that in November 2014, the plaintiff learned
of the subsistence of her first marriage and initiated proceedings under
the Hindu Marriage Act for annulment of his marriage on 10th April,
2015. Upon having known her game, she along with her relatives
including her sisters (i.e. Maya Chaudhary as CEO of defendant No.3 and
Director of defendant No.2) and brother-in-laws hatched a conspiracy to CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 3 of 83 set up a competing business with defendant No.3 while still working as
Director/ employees of defendant No.3 to divert the business, future
business opportunities, staff and students to their own private
companies. 8. She holds 99.99% shares and her sister Maya Chaudhary's
daughter holds 0.01% share for the purposes of carrying on competing
business of coaching centres of defendant No.2 as alleged by the
plaintiff. Another company, namely, Paramount Reader Publication Pvt.
Ltd. (a one person Company under Section 2(62) of the Companies Act,
2013, in which she holds 100% shares) for carrying on the competing
business of printing, publishing and distributing reading material by
using the property (Reading Material) of defendant No.3, which is the
subject matter of the suit pending in Rohini Court. 9. As mentioned above, defendant No.3 has been printing,
publishing, selling and providing the books, Journals and other study
material in the name of defendant No.3 for various competitive and
other examinations on various subjects like Reasoning, physics,
Chemistry, English, Maths, etc. Defendant No.1 has been indulging in
causing wrongful loss to the defendant No.3 and wrongful gain for her
individual one-person company namely M/s. Paramount Reader
Publication OPC Pvt. Ltd. The plaintiff on behalf of the defendant No.3
as well as for himself being share-holder has filed a civil suit bearing
No.217/2015 which is pending before the Court of Sh.Satish Kumar,
ADJ, Rohini, Delhi. 10. The District Court granted an injunction in favour of the plaintiff
and the defendant No.1 appealed before this Court and a technical
defect was discovered in the suit and the plaintiff withdrew the suit
with leave to file a fresh suit in the District Court which was duly filed CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 4 of 83 and on 15th September, 2015 in CS No.217 of 2015, the Rohini District
Court granted an injunction restraining inter-alia defendant No.1 from
using the name PARAMOUNT for her personal and individual benefit or in
any of her publications, or in any soft copy or in online material and
further from indulging in competing business. 11. The plaintiff submits that defendant No.1 is creating confusion
and deception in the minds of ordinary persons to believe that KD
Campus is a part of defendant No.3 or somehow it is associated with
defendant No.3 or it is doing business with the consent of the plaintiff
which, in fact, is untrue. 12. It is also alleged in the plaint that defendant No.1 in her capacity
as a Director of defendant No.3 is bound and obliged to act for the
benefit of the company and must not allow herself to be placed in a
position of conflict with the defendant No.3-Company. But defendant
No.1 has incorporated a competing business under the banner of K.D.
Campus Pvt. Ltd. and has placed her personal pecuniary interest above
than that of defendant No.3. The plaintiff has and is continuing to use
her position as Director to usurp business of defendant No.3's
business. 13. The plaintiff says that after incorporating defendant No.2, which
in itself is a breach of fiduciary duty owed to defendant No.3,
defendant No.1 made all efforts to capitalise on the goodwill generated
by defendant No.3 and mislead the public to believe that defendant
No.2 is a part of defendant No.3 so as to divert all its business to
herself and defendant No.2. In doing so, one of the key techniques she
used is to use the phrase 'A new venture by Neetu Singh,
founder/director of Paramount Coaching Centre' - defendant No.3's
resources, such as Facebook and Twitter using this phrase. She CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 5 of 83 marketed K.D. Campus Pvt. Ltd. as a New venture by 'Neetu Singh,
founder/director of Paramount Coaching Centre' over the radio, Metro
trains as well as in her personal publication i.e. Paramount Reader
Publication, a magazine run by defendant No.1 using the name of
defendant No.3 in violation of the Companies Act, 2013 . 14. In order to restrain defendant No.1 from indulging in the
aforesaid wrongful actions, the plaintiff on 26th May 2015 had
instituted a suit being CS(OS) No.1592 of 2015 along with an
application under Order XXXIX Rules 1 and 2 CPC . By an order dated
26th May, 2015, the learned Single Judge issued notice. For completion
of service and pleadings, the matter was listed before Joint Registrar
on 7th October, 2015. Being aggrieved by the said order, the plaintiff preferred an
appeal being FAO(OS) No.301/2015. By an order dated 10th August,
2015, the Division Bench was pleased to direct the learned Single
Judge that the plaintiff's application under Order XXXIX Rules 1 & 2 CPC be heard on 24th August, 2015. The plaintiff earlier also filed the
Suit No.78/2015 before the ADJ, Rohini Courts, Delhi restraining the
defendants from using the mark Paramount in the publication of
books. The same was withdrawn on 17th August, 2015 with liberty to
file the fresh one. As far as litigation in this Court is concerned, it is submitted that
though the plaintiff initially instituted the suits in his personal name,
owing to technical defects, both the suits were withdrawn with leave to
file fresh suits, which was granted. Accordingly, fresh derivative suits
were instituted. The earlier suit being CS(OS) No.1592/2015 was
withdrawn by order dated 9th September, 2015 which was already filed.
He was allowed to withdraw the said suit. In order to save time and CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 6 of 83 avoid needless confusion, as alleged, the plaintiff has been advised to
withdraw the said suit filed in this Court and institute a fresh action,
which the plaintiff is hereby doing. The plaintiff has accordingly also
filed an application under Order XXIII Rule 1(3) CPC for withdrawal of
the said suit and has sought leave of this Court to institute the present
action. 15. Written statement and reply on behalf of defendants No.1 and 2
have been filed. The defendant No.1 has also made various personal
allegations against the plaintiff. The same would be referred at a later
stage. The main defences, on merit, raised reads as under:- The company has not authorized the plaintiff to file any such
 action. The derivative action filed by him is not maintainable. (ii) The suit of the plaintiff is without any cause of action, as he
 has filed the suit as shareholder to the extent of 50% in
 the shareholding of defendant No.3-Company for violation
 of his individual membership rights. The remedy for the
 plaintiff, if any, is a petition under Section 397 / 398 of the
 Companies Act, 1956 before Company Law Board. (iii) The suit is impliedly barred by the provisions of Companies Act read with Section 9 of CPC. The defendant
 No.1 has already filed a petition before the Company Law
 Board for relief against oppression and mismanagement
 by the plaintiff herein in respect of business and affairs of
 defendant No.3-company. The CLB is already seized with
 the acts of omission and commission of the plaintiff. The
 parallel proceedings before the two different forums CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 7 of 83 cannot continue as it may result in conflicting orders.
 The present suit and the present application are also
 barred by Section 41(h) & (i) of Specific Relief Act . (iv) It is not open for the plaintiff to allege that the defendant
 No.1 is disentitled to do business in defendant No.2-
 Company. The plaintiff has concealed from this Court that
 the plaintiff has prevented, obstructed and interfered with
 the defendant No.1 acting as Director of defendant No.3-
 Company. The plaintiff has not allowed holding of any
 meeting of Board of Directors or of the shareholders. No
 meeting of the Board of Directors was ever held. The
 plaintiff has failed to convene or attend any board meetings
 or general meetings in as much as there are only two
 directors and shareholders i.e. plaintiff and defendant No.1.
 There can be no meeting without either the plaintiff or
 defendant No.1. He has taken physical control over the
 business, affairs and belongings of defendant No.3-
 Company and is now seeking to prevent the defendant
 No.1 from carrying on her lawful business in defendant
 No.2-Company. He has no right or interest in defendant
 No.2-Company. He is jealous that the defendant No.1 has
 been able to set up the defendant No.2-Company and
 provides good service in the market. Unable to deal with
 the defendant No.1 in the market, the plaintiff has filed
 the present suit to abuse its process to bring wrongful
 pressure upon the defendant No.1. (v) Defendant No.2-Company does not use the mark or name
 "Paramount" for its business. The defendant No.1 has CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 8 of 83 neither diverted any business of defendant No.3 to
 defendant No.2 nor utilized any goodwill of defendant No.3
 nor misled any member of the public to believe the
 defendant No.2 is part of defendant No.3. (vi) The suit of the plaintiff is liable to be rejected under Order
 VII Rule 11(d) CPC as the suit is barred under Order 2
 Rule 2 CPC , as mere a comparison of the contents of the
 plaint of three suits would show that all the paras of all the
 plaints are identical. The foundation facts of all the suits
 are substantially identical. The cause of action is the same.
 The plaintiff is indulging in multiple litigations. Thus, the
 suit of the plaintiff is barred under Order II Rule 2 CPC and
 is liable to be rejected under Order VII Rule 11(d) of CPC . (vii) The suit of the plaintiff is without cause of action as the
 plaintiff has no exclusive rights over the word "Paramount".
 As the word is a common, dictionary one and is also
 descriptive or generic. (viii) The plaintiff is not the originator of word "Paramount", rather
 the defendant No.1 is the prior user of word "Paramount" as
 the "Paramount Coaching Centre" was initially started by the
 defendant No.1 in the year 1992 and when the plaintiff and
 defendant No.1 met, at that time, the plaintiff was running
 the IAS Academy in the name and style of "Arohan" and he
 offered the defendant No.1 to start her "Paramount Coaching
 Centre" from his space of "Arohan" and the offer was
 accepted by the defendant No.1 and as such the defendant
 No.1 ran her "Paramount Coaching Centre" at the place of
 plaintiff where he was running his IAS Academy "Arohan". (ix) The plaintiff has shown himself to be the "Proprietor" of
 "Arohan" in the Profit & Loss Account and Balance Sheet
 filed by him under his signature as "Proprietor of "Arohan"
 with income tax return for the assessment year 2005-2006
 as well as in his profile uploaded on Jeevansathi.com. It is
 further reflected in joint advertisement published in
 "Bharat-2006" published by Ministry of Broadcasting, Govt.
 of India wherein "Arohan" has been shown to be running by
 plaintiff from one place and "Paramount Coaching Centre" The returns of the year 2012-13 was filed using the forged
 signatures of the defendant No.1 and to this effect, a
 complaint was made by the defendant No.1 to the Police
 Station, Mukherjee Nagar vide DD No.66 dated 18th January,
 2015 and after that he has restored the share of the
 defendant No.1 to 50%. (xi) The Magazine namely "Paramount Readers" which is edited
 by the defendant No.1 and popular amongst the students
 and the same is appreciated by the students, the
 distribution of the same has been abruptly stopped by the
 plaintiff in the centres and at its place, he has published a CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 10 of 83 deceptively similar magazine "Paramount Current Affairs" 16. Apart from the merit of the case, both parties have made
personal allegations and counter-allegations against each other in their
pleadings. There are many other litigations pending between the
parties of civil and criminal nature. Though it is not necessary to
discuss and decide all the issues raised by them which are beyond the
scope of the present suit and the issues which are subject matter of
the present suit. However, the same are being mentioned to know
their other grievances. The plaintiff has made the following allegations
against defendant No.1:- At the time of marriage, she represented to the plaintiff that
 she was a spinster and in fact, swore an affidavit stating the
 same but later on, the plaintiff learned that she was still
 married to one Capt. Bachchan Singh Chauhan at the time of
 her marriage with the plaintiff and she had with a pre-planned
 motive to usurp the plaintiff's business and money
 misrepresented to him that she was single. Defendant No.1 is
 a lawyer by profession. She could not enter into marriage with
 the plaintiff during subsistence of her first marriage but she
 along with her family hatched a conspiracy to usurp the CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 11 of 83 business and wealth of the plaintiff and she was able to
 misrepresent the plaintiff to the effect that she was a spinster
 and legally eligible to enter into marriage with him. When on
 12th March, 2006, the marriage of the plaintiff was
 solemnized with defendant No.1, at that time, the temple
 authority specifically asked the plaintiff as well as the
 defendant No.1 to furnish their respective affidavits on oath
 stating their age, marital status, religion, intention etc. The
 defendant No.1 had wrongly deposed on oath that she was
 spinster at the time of marriage with the plaintiff. Although,
 the brother, sister and brother-in-law of defendant No.1 used
 to visit the plaintiff even before the marriage. They were
 aware that defendant No.1 was already married with one
 Bachhan Singh Chauhan and despite they never disclosed
 this material fact to the plaintiff rather helped the defendant
 No.1 in getting married with the plaintiff despite of the
 brother of defendant No.1 even stood as a witness before
 Hindu Marriage Registrar, C.M.C. area, Calcutta at the time of
 registration of marriage of defendant No.1 with her first
 husband Bachhan Kumar Singh Chauhan. (II) The plaintiff, in good faith, believed defendant No.1's
 untruths and married her in March, 12, 2006 and having
 been appointed Director of the defendant No.3-Company,
 defendant No.1 started appointing her family members to key
 positions in defendant No.3, with intent to be go gain
 assistance and control in the process of diverting the
 plaintiff's business. The defendant No.1 appointed her sister
 and brother in law, Maya Chaudhary and R.K. Chaudhary as CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 12 of 83 CEO's of defendant No.3, her nephews for looking after books
 and magazine section of defendant No.2 and her other sister
 Manju Singh, in another key position at defendant No.3. (III) Prior to the incorporation of defendant No.3, the parties had
 mutually agreed that they would not carry out any separate
 business in this field or use the name 'Paramount' in the
 same business for their individual gain unless mutually
 consented to. In any event, there exists a statutory
 injunction in Section 166 of the Companies Act, 2013 against
 the defendant No.1 being a Director from inter alia (a)
 placing himself in a position where his interests conflict with
 that of the Company: (b) gaining an unfair advantage by
 breaching duties owed to the Company, (c) failing to act in
 the best interest of the company. The defendant No.1 failed
 to inform or obtain the plaintiff's consent prior to
 incorporating defendant No.2. Further, defendant No.1 is still
 a Director in defendant No.3. She has used this position as
 Director of defendant No.3 to divert defendant No.3's
 business to defendant No.2 and confuse the public to believe
 that defendant No.2 is part of defendant No.3. Defendant
 No.1 only became part of the Paramount banner in 2009, i.e.
 4 years after the plaintiff had started his business and three
 years after the parties were married. She cannot be allowed
 to reap benefits by first, deceiving the plaintiff into marriage,
 and then, usurping his and/or defendant No.3's property and
 goodwill and that too against the statutory injunction
 contained, inter-alia, in Section 166 of the Companies Act,
 2013. (IV) In addition to diverting the business of defendant No.3 to
 defendant No.2 by misleading the public into believing that
 the two companies are associated, defendant No.1 has been
 soliciting students that approach defendant No.3 to take
 admission in defendant No.2. To lure them into abandoning
 defendant No.3, she has been providing a concessional
 special fee rate for Paramount students to join defendant
 No.2. The sisters of defendant No.1, Manju Singh and Maya
 Chaudhary and brother in law, R.K. Chaudhary are assisting
 the defendant No.1 in the process. Even defendant No.1 has
 instructed staff members of defendant No.3 to lure new
 students of defendant No.3 to join defendant No.2. In addition, defendant No.1 has given her nephews key
 positions in Paramount Reader Publication OPC Pvt. Ltd. so as
 to solicit more students and innovate new techniques of
 plundering defendant No.3 and to use the books and other
 study materials of defendant No.3 for coaching in various
 subjects for the benefits of defendant No.1 and causing
 wrongful gain to the defendant No.3 and the plaintiff. 17. The defendants No.1 and 2 have denied all the allegations made
by the plaintiff, rather the counter-allegations are made by defendant
No.1 who stated that the plaintiff has started taking unilateral
decisions of defendant No.3-Company regarding appointment,
termination, enhancing salaries of the employees and without calling
any board meetings. He had hired the musclemen and lady bouncers
in order to prevent the defendant No.1 in the affairs of the
defendant No.3-Company and also the ingress and outgress of the
company premises, which is evident from the CCTV footage and CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 14 of 83 photographs of incident occurred on 5th August, 2015 in the Munirka
Branch of deferent No.3, when the defendant No.1 was mercilessly
beaten and brutally assaulted by the goons hired by the plaintiff in
order to kill the defendant No.1. Due to unilaterally decision of his
own choice in the Company, the management of the defendant
company is deadlocked. Recently, he appointed one lady namely
Swaraj Gupta of his own choice and sent her to the Uttam Nagar
Centre of the company in order to create chaos in the said centre
and when the defendant No.1 interfered, a false and fabricated
case was got registered by the Police of Bindapur Police Station at
the instance of plaintiff but later on, on preliminary enquiry of the
police, it was found that the said lady has been illegally trespassed
in the premises of the company and upon the complaint of the
defendant No.1, FIR No.1063 dated 27 th July, 2015, under Sections
323 / 379 / 452 / 506 IPC was registered in Police Station Binda Pur. It is also submitted on behalf of defendants No.1 and 2 that
the plaintiff had embezzled a sum of Rs.47 Lac from the collection
of January, 2015 of defendant No.3 for his personal use, as the said
amount was not submitted with the accounts section of the Head
Office of the company. The plaintiff is a mountaineer and is fulfilling
his desires of this extremely expensive passion by illegally draining
and embezzling the funds and collections of Paramount Coaching
Centre Pvt. Ltd. (defendant No.3), of which he is a Director. While
earning Rs.5 lac and then after increment Rs.7 lac per month, it was
highly impossible to go for mountaineering expedition with a
friend to all the continents of the world, each costing not less than
Rs.30-40 lac per person and bearing the entire cost of the friend.
He has failed in his three expeditions and successful in five and with CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 15 of 83 this, he has spent around Rs.5,00,00,000/- since 2011 when he first
started his training in mountaineering. This money of course does
not belong to him and in no way he was entitled to this amount
which belonged to the company. He went to all the expeditions with
his friend Amit Singh, a resident of Pune or with Varun Upadhyay. It is alleged that the defendant No.1 is the author of many
books and sought after books extremely beneficial for the aspirants of
the competitive examination. She is also an Editor of a Magazine
'Paramount Reader' which is extremely famous among the aspirants.
Not only this, even the other institutes and business houses have great
regards for the plaintiff and he is known as Neetu's husband. 18. It is also submitted on behalf of defendant No.1 that in the
present case, both the plaintiff and defendant No.1 had equal
shareholdings of 50% and were equally responsible for the affairs of
the Company for all purposes. The plaintiff chose to ignore any sort of
contribution to the day-to-day functioning of the Company. The
shareholding is equally divided between the groups/shareholders,
thus, it can be presumed that the same is of the nature of a
partnership and not a company. 19. In reply, Ms.Geeta Luthra, learned Senior counsel on behalf of
defendant No.1 argued that Section 166 of the Companies Act or Section 88 of the Indian Trusts Act or Section 16 of the Partnership Act
do not debar defendant No.1 in entering into a similar business as she
has been ousted from defendant No.3 as per averments made in the
written statement. It is argued that defendant No.1 has started the
independent business under the compelling circumstances and the
reasons as explained in the written statement. She has placed
reliance on the following judgments:- 20. The next submission is that there are numerous pending
litigations between the two shareholders and the plaintiff has been
resorting to assault and battery on the defendant No.1 to prevent her
from entering the premises of the defendant No.3. Plaintiff's vendetta
against defendant No.1 has surpassed civil methods and the plaintiff
has been: 21. It is also submitted on behalf of defendants No.1 and 2 that the
plaintiff has disregard to the financial condition and future of the
company, defendant No.3. The proceedings for oppression and
mismanagement, under Section 397 and 398 of the Companies Act,
1956, were the efficacious remedy enacted under the Special Act , in
the Company Law Board. The said proceedings have not progressed
due to the dilatory tactics adopted by the plaintiff. Defendant No.1 is
constrained to file the winding-up proceedings due to the recalcitrant
attitude of the plaintiff. The plaintiff has been continuously inducting
his relatives, family and friends in defendant No.3-Company, making it
easier for him to oust defendant No.1 from the company. Plaintiff has CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 17 of 83 taken help of muscle power and anti-social elements and has been
bribing staff into committing acts against defendants No.1, with a
motive to take control of the company for personal gain. The
submission of learned Senior counsel for the plaintiff that there has
been no ousting of the defendant No.1, is without any substance and
false. By relying upon the judgment in Heena Dutt v. Chavi
Designs Pvt. Ltd. , 2008 (141), Comp.Cas 172 CLB, Ms.Luthra
submits that the said decision directly applies to the facts of the
present case, as in the present case, the plaintiff has been taking
unilateral decisions for more than 2 years and has already taken over
the control of the company by his strong arm tactics. The plaintiff has
removed the name and photographs of the defendant No.1 - Neetu
Singh from the prospectus, and has displayed the hoardings of his
photographs along with staff in all advertisements pertaining to
Paramount Coaching Centre Pvt. Ltd. He has also unilaterally
withdrawn Rs.6.5 crores from the overdraft facilities in the guise of
expansion without the consent of the defendant No.1 which shows that
he has already ousted the defendant No.1 from the said company and
taken control over the company affairs. The defendant No.1 is not
even getting her salary from Paramount Coaching Centre Pvt. Ltd for
the last 2/3 months. She has been denied access to the account
books. The whole Account Section of Paramount Coaching Centre Pvt.
Ltd has been shifted to some unknown destination, the address of
which is unknown to the defendant No.1. 22. It is stated that one of the petitions filed by defendant No.1
against the plaintiff is already pending before the Company Law Board,
thus, the present suit is not maintainable. The plaintiff has filed the
present suit against the defendant No.1 and her relative which is not CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 18 of 83 maintainable. Even a third party can be made a party before the
Company Law Board as per Section 405 of the Companies Act, 1956.
Ms. Luthra has referred para 23 of Henna Dutt (supra) decided by the
Company Law Board in support of her submissions that there should
be bids between them and highest bidder should purchase the shares
of the other party. The said para reads as under:- "23. Objects and purpose of Sections 397 , 398 , 402 and 408 of the Act is twofold - to set right the wrongs and take
 remedial action to prevent occurrence of wrongs in future.
 Thus both preventive and curative action can be taken by
 the Company Law Board to regulate the conduct of the
 Company's affairs in future and to bring to an end the
 matters complained of. To do substantial justice between
 the parties, I hereby direct the respondent No.2 to restore
 the sale consideration received in respect of the discounted
 sales and other amounts siphoned off from the respondent
 No.1 company's accounts forthwith. Since there is a
 deadlock in the respondent No.1, and since both the
 parties know the worth of the company, I hereby direct the
 parties to arrive at an amount to be paid to the petitioner
 for her going out of the company which would be
 acceptable to the petitioner. In case no such acceptable
 consideration is arrived and paid to the petitioner within a
 month of receipt of this order, I consider it appropriate to
 direct that both the parties to be present in the CLB Court
 Room along with their counsels on August 23, 2007, at
 11.30 a.m., to bid for the shares and the party which bids
 the higher price for the shares, should purchase the shares
 of the other party at that price." 23. Let me now deal with the submissions of the parties. It is
undisputed fact, that is, a material placed on the record that the
defendant No.1 has made many statements publically by way of
advertisements and messages on mobile phone to the students and
other modern media in order to harm the business of defendant No.3
and its goodwill and reputation as well as against the plaintiff. On CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 19 of 83 whatsapp groups, the defendant No.1 has made statements such as "2
months me dho dala h. 2 saal me naam mita dungi. Aag lagi h Rajeev
Saumitra. Tumko sadak par utaar ke hi bujhegi. Tab tak me teej ka
vrat bhi karungi. Tujhe jinda rakhna bhi jaruri h" and "Kutto ke sath
wah appa ne toh Kutiya bhi paal rakhi h. great going". In addition, on
Facebook, she has made statements such as "Congratulations to all
well wishers cases against K.D. Pvt. Ltd. and Paramount Reader
Publication have been decided in favour". The defendant No.1 has
also used the name PARAMOUNT along with the name of defendant
No.2 K.D. Campus Pvt. Ltd. in order to make promotion of her own
Company. The conclusive and cogent evidence has been produced by
the plaintiff in the shape of photographs of sign-boards having the
name of PARAMOUNT with the advertisement of K.D. Campus. In
some of the sign-boards, it is mentioned as Neetu Singh - Ex-Director
of Paramount. 24. Section 166 of the Companies Act, 2013 which came into force
with effect from 1st April, 2014, the object of the said provision is to
give the fiduciary duty to the Director otherwise the features,
consequences and incorporation in the said provision which is in
consonance of Section 88 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 as well as Section 16 of the Partnership Act, 1932. The said provisions of these Acts reads as under:- Section 88 of the Indian Trusts Act

 "88. Advantage gained by fiduciary.-- Where a trustee,
 executor, partner, agent, director of a company, legal
 adviser, or other person bound in a fiduciary character to
 protect the interests of another person, by availing himself
 of his character, gains for himself any pecuniary
 advantage, or where any person so bound enters into any
 dealings under circumstances in which his own interests
 are, or may be, adverse to those of such other person, and
 thereby gains for himself a pecuniary advantage, he must
 hold for the benefit of such other person the advantage so
 gained." Section 16 of the Partnership Act

 "16. Personal profits earned by partners.--Subject to
 contract between the partners,-- (a) if a partner derives
 any profit for himself from any transaction of the firm, or
 from the use of the property or business connection of the
 firm or the firm name, he shall account for that profit and
 pay it to the firm; (b) if a partner carries on any business
 of the same nature as and competing with that of the firm,
 he shall account for and pay to the firm all profits made by
 him in that business." 25. Section 88 of the Indian Trusts Act provides that a Director/
Partner who in violation of his fiduciary character gains for himself any
pecuniary advantage or enters into any dealing in which his own
interest is adverse to the interest of the Company and thereby gains a
pecuniary advantage to himself, he will hold such advantage gained
for the benefit of the company. Similarly, Section 16 of the Indian
Partnership Act is also relevant on this aspect. 26. With regard to the argument of the plaintiff about violation of Section 166 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Section 88 of the Trusts
Act, 1882 by defendant No.1, it is urged on behalf of defendant No.1
that the same is without any substance. It is submitted that Section
166(5) of the Companies Act, 2013 provides for relief that is more of a
personal remedy, whereas Section 88 of the Trusts Act, 1882 provides
for the "pecuniary advantage" to be held in benefit of such other
person, to whom the other person is bound under a fiduciary duty. The
remedy under Section 88 of the Trusts Act, 1882 is provided as a part
of the no-conflict rule. The incorporation of defendant No.2 was not in
conflict with the interests of defendant No.3 but out of necessity. The
creation of defendant No.2 is not an act of breach of trust against
defendant No.3 but in order to survive her life. The ousting of CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 22 of 83 defendant No.1 who being one of the Directors has 50% shareholding
and has created defendant No.3 is the biggest act of deceit. There
cannot be a breach in fiduciary duty, when it exists on paper and not
in reality, as she had already been ousted as a Director No.3 and for
the sole reason of survival, she laid the foundation of defendant No.2
Company. The remedy provided under Section 166(7) of the Companies
Act, 2013 is a fine not less than that of Rs.1 lakh and the legislative
intent could not have been to introduce the remedy of the magnitude
provided under Section 88 of the Trusts Act, 1882 or that of an
injunction on defendant No.2. The remedy provided under Section
166(7) is the maximum that can be imposed for the breach of the
duties by a Director under Section 166 . 27. As far as the opening of independent business by defendant
No.1 under the name of defendant No.3 is concerned, Ms.Luthra,
learned Senior counsel argues that there is no harm, as two names
are different; she has started independent business of similar nature
due to vast experience and in view of the conduct of the plaintiff, she
has no other option but to do some business in order to survive and
being an expert in the line, therefore, the plaintiff cannot suffer any
harm. In support, she has referred the judgment of Darius Rutto
Kavasmaneck v. Gharda Chemicals Ltd. (2015) 191 CompCas
52(Bom), wherein the principle as laid down is as simple as under:- In para 63 of the said judgment , it was observed that "The Courts
should be alert in dealing with such speculative suits and shoot down
such bogus litigations at an early stage and the action of the plaintiff,
it is quite obvious is inspired by vexatious motives....." It is stated that
the said direction of the Bombay High Court is a guideline for all such
frivolous suits, instituted to create pressure and strong arm innocent
citizens. 28. It is argued by Ms.Luthra that the injunction is an equitable relief
and the party invoking the jurisdiction of the Court has to show that
he himself was not a wrongdoer or at fault and that he himself was not
responsible for bringing about the state of things complained of and
that he was not unfair or inequitable in his dealings with the party
against whom he was seeking relief. His conduct should be fair and
honest. The same has been directed in the case of Gujrat Bottling
Co. Ltd. and Ors. v. Coca Cola Co. and Ors. , (1995) 5 SCC 545,
para 47. 29. Mr.P.V.Kapur, learned Senior counsel appearing on behalf of the
plaintiff has refuted the argument of defendant No.1 to the effect that
under the compelling circumstances, defendant No.1 started her own
independent business as she was ousted from the company of
defendant No.3 by the plaintiff and his persons. He says that the facts CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 24 of 83 of the present case are dissimilar to the case of Heena Dutt (supra).
Thus, the question of bid of shares does not arise, as the defendant
No.1 has already established very well handsome parallel business of
similar nature, thus, now at this juncture, the said suggestion of bid
inter se between the parties is not feasible as the defendant No.1 has
refused to transfer the undue profits made by her in the Company of
defendant No.2. The defendant No.1 is making huge profit by doing
the competing business hence, she is liable to pay all the profit to the
defendant No.3 and the defendant No.2 is also to be restrained. It is
also argued that the plea of ousting is wholly after-thought.
Defendant No.1 under no circumstances could have started competing
business, as she was never ousted from the business of defendant
No.3. It is the admitted fact in the first written statement filed by
defendant No.1 in the suit being CS(OS) No.1592/2015 (which was
withdrawn by plaintiff to file fresh present suit), it was never her stand
that she had been ousted from the business of defendant No.3.
However, in the written statement filed in the present suit, she has
taken a different stand about ouster. Mr.Kapur submits that when she
came across the decision in the case of Heena Dutt (supra), she has
changed her stand on that basis, as it is inspired from the said case.
Mr.Kapur referred a para from the said case and says that the same is
apparent from the use of verbatim expression "indispensible director" 30. Mr.Kapur is correct in his submission in this regard, as in the
written statement filed in CS(OS) No.1592/2015, her assertion was
otherwise, it was rather stated that she is only the "Active Director" 31. Mr.Kapur, learned Senior counsel has referred documents in
order to show that she was not ousted as the defendant No.1 has been
visiting and involved in the running business of defendant No.3, as on
24th September 2015, defendant No.1 in her capacity as a Director of
defendant No.3, appointed two persons namely, Mr.Rupesh Kumar
Pandey as 'Batch Checker' at Rs.12,000/- per month and Mr.Ram Babu
at Rs.7,000/- per month. In the month of August 2015, defendant
No.1 as Director of defendant No.3 withdrew sums amounting to
Rs.1,56,38,338/-. The plaintiff has taken no steps to remove
defendant No.1 as a Director even though she has vacated her office
as a Director of defendant No.3. (See Sections 184 read with Section
167 of the Companies Act, 2013). She is also enjoying the
cheque-signing authority as appeared from the document filed along
with I.A. No.23408/2015. 32. It fortifies from the fact that in the present suit, the defendant
No.1 has pleaded 'ouster' in the written statement, but at the same
time in the Company Law Board, she is alleging plaintiff's removal as
a Director of defendant No.2 as the plaintiff is taking decisions
unilaterally; he should be restrained from using funds of the
company; and she has been asserting that she alone has the right to
take all the decisions of defendant No.3's company. Counsel for the
plaintiff has referred the petition filed before the Company Law Board
by defendant No.1. 33. Therefore, it is clear that she has taking contrary stands in
different proceedings. Even otherwise, Heena Dutt 's case (supra)
is a 2008 Judgment when Section 166 of the Companies Act, 2013 CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 26 of 83 had not yet been enacted. In the said judgment , the provisions of Section 88 of the Indian Trusts Act and Section 166 of the
Companies Act, 2013 have not been discussed or dealt with. From
the material placed on the record, it appears that the ouster
pleaded by her is after-thought and the plea is contrary to the
written statement filed in CS(OS) No.1592/2015. Therefore, prima-
facie, the defence raised by defendant No.1 cannot be allowed at this
stage. 34. With regard to reliance on Foster Bryant's case (supra), in
paragraph 8 of the judgment the Court has discussed about the
Director's Fiduciary Duties and it was held that a Director has a
Fiduciary Duty towards the Company and must deal with loyalty
and good faith and avoidance of conflict of duty and self-interest.
He is precluded from obtaining any property or business advantage
that is in conflict with the business of the Company. A mere
exception is carved out that while the employment as a director
subsists, a director can take steps 'preparatory to competition'.
However, it has never laid down that under the similar
circumstances as in the present case, a director can start a
competing business while remaining a Director. In fact, if overall
judgment is read, the said judgment supports the case of the
plaintiff. The findings and observations do not help the case of
defendant No.1. 35. Even otherwise, if the plea raised by defendant No.1 is taken
on its face value, it is settled law that equity cannot overrule the
law, but on the contrary, the law would prevail. Therefore, it is not
possible to carve out an exception to Section 166 . Reliance is
placed on the following judgments:- ( i) Vijay Narayan Thatte and Ors. v. State of
 Maharashtra & Ors. - 2009 (9) SCC 92 - at pg. 98, para 22 "22. In our opinion, when the language of the
 statute is plain and clear then the literal rule of
 interpretation has to be applied and there is
 ordinarily no scope for consideration of equity, public
 interest or seeking the intention of the legislature. It
 is only when the language of the statute is not clear
 or ambiguous or there is some conflict, etc. or the
 plain language leads to some absurdity that one can
 depart from the literal rule of interpretation. A
 perusal of the proviso to Section 6 shows that the
 language of the proviso is clear. Hence the literal rule
 of interpretation must be applied to it. When there is
 a conflict between the law and equity it is the law
 which must prevail. As stated in the Latin
 maxim dura lex sed lex which means "the law is hard
 but it is the law." ( ii) Dr. T.A. Qureshi v. Commissioner of Income Tax,
 Bhopal , 2007 (2) SCC 759 - at pg. 763, para 16

 "16. In our opinion, the High Court has adopted an
 emotional and moral approach rather than a legal
 approach. We fully agree with the High Court that the
 assessee was committing a highly immoral act in
 illegally manufacturing and selling heroin. However,
 cases are to be decided by the court on legal
 principles and not on one's own moral views. Law is
 different from morality, as the positivist jurists
 Bentham and Austin pointed out." ( iii) Abdul Basit v. Abdul Kadir Choudhary , 2014 (10) SCC
 754 - at pg. 766, para 25

 "25. It is a well-settled proposition of law that
 "what cannot be done directly, cannot be done
 indirectly". While exercising a statutory power a
 court is bound to act within the four corners of the
 statute. The statutory exercise of the power stands CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 28 of 83 on a different pedestal than the power of judicial
 review vested in a court. The same has been upheld
 by this Court in Bay Berry Apartments (P)
 Ltd. v. Shobha [( 2006) 13 SCC 737] , U.P. State
 Brassware Corpn. Ltd. v. Uday Narain
 Pandey [(2006) 1 SCC 479 : 2006 SCC (L&S) 250]
 and Rashmi Rekha Thatoi v. State of Orissa [(2012)
 5 SCC 690 : (2012) 2 SCC (Cri) 721] . It is the duty
 of the superior courts to follow the command of the
 statutory provisions and be guided by the
 precedents and issue directions which are
 permissible in law." 36. In the present case, the plaintiff has filed clear evidence on
record to show that defendant No.1 had tried to divert the business
of defendant No.3 by setting up competing businesses despite of
remaining a Director of defendant No.3. The same is even apparent
from the messages sent by defendant No.1 which does not
demonstrate any ouster, rather the said messages would give
indication about competing with the business of defendant No.3-
Company - "Tumko sadak par utar ke zinda rakhna bhi zaroori hai".
She is luring defendant No.3 students by offering a 20% discount in
the fee or a special fee to solicit Paramount's existing students, for
them to join her competing business of KD Campus Pvt. Ltd. -
defendant No.2. In the first written statement, it was stated that
"Those students who have paid their fee... would be given discount."
She has been providing a special rate for Paramount students to join
KD Campus. 37. Further, not only has defendant No.1 advertised defendant
No.2 as part of defendant No.3, defendant No.1 has set up office of
defendant No.2 adjacent to defendant No.3 with hoardings that state
'A new venture by Neetu Singh, founder/director of Paramount CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 29 of 83 Coaching Centre'. "Excellent Quality at Less Fees" and special
discounts are given to Paramount (defendant No.3) students so that
they should leave defendant No.3 and join promotional material of
defendant No.2 such as Hindi and English pamphlets, brochures, and
the banner message on official website of defendant No.2 advertising
it with the same phrase. 38. Also, defendant No.1 has advertised brilliant students of
defendant No.3 as those of defendant No.2 on the official website of
defendant No.2. Defendant No.1 has also advertised faculty
defendant No.3 as that of defendant No.2. Further, the courses
offered by defendant No.2 are identical to those offered by defendant
No.3. Even the Director's message on both the websites is identical,
in order to usurp goodwill and business of defendant No.3. 39. It shows that the said actions of defendant No.1, inter-alia, in
violation of her fiduciary duty as a Director and also as 50% majority
shareholder of defendant No.3 and also being violative of Section 166 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Section 88 of the Indian Trusts Act,
1882. 40. In the CLB Petition filed by defendant No.1, it is mentioned
that she started a new venture for setting up a coaching institute.
She has also filed the complaint filed by employee of defendant No.3
against defendant No.1 who is alleging regarding that she is trying to
poach and threaten the employees. 41. Being a Director of defendant No.3, in her business of
defendant No.2, i.e., K.D. Campus Pvt. Ltd., she has given
advertisements that K.D. Campus is a new venture by Neetu
Singh, Founder and Director of Paramount Coaching Centre. The CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 30 of 83 other following details filed by the plaintiff would speak for
themselves: 42. The proximity of the defendant No.3-Company's existing centres
with those subsequently opened by the defendant No.2-Company is a
matter of fact as the same is not disputed by defendant No.1. Even
new centres are opened by defendant No.1 during the pendency of the
litigation, which are also in close proximity to the centres of defendant
No.3-Company. The defendant No.1 had appointed various relatives
at key managerial positions in the defendant No.3-Company. Admittedly, she being the Director, subsequently upon incorporation of
defendant No.2, is in violation of Section 166 of the Companies Act
2013, Section 88 of the Indian Trusts Act and Section 16 of the
Indian Partnership Act. A mere reading of the above said provisions as well as the
conduct of defendant No.1 and the material placed on the record
would show as even in the written statement, it was admitted that
she has started similar business and the plaintiff is envious; the
defendant No.2 was admittedly incorporated on 21 st February,
2015, it appears to the Court that defendant No.1 being the Director
of the Company has not acted in good faith. It is obvious done by her
in order to promote the object of the Company, in the best interest of
the Company, its employees and for protection of environment; she
has not exercised her duty with due and reasonable care, diligence and
she was involved in the situation in which there was a direct interest
that conflicted with the interest of the Company, in order to gain
advantage by herself and her relatives. In normal course, she was
obliged by the statutory provisions. Being a Director, defendant No.1 is
guilty of making undue gain and she is also guilty of carrying out
competing business of defendant No.3. There is no force in the
arguments of Ms.Geeta Luthra on this point. The plea of prior user of
the mark PARAMOUNT is wholly irrelevant when once the mark
PARAMOUNT was invested in the company by any of the parties, the
same became the property of the company unless there is an
agreement in writing to the effect that the other party/Director shall
not claim any right to the same name. Such agreement or consent has
not been pleaded by defendant No.1. 43. Now, I shall deal with the next submissions addressed on behalf
of defendants No.1 and 2 that the suit filed by the plaintiff as
derivative action is not maintainable. It is submitted on behalf of the
plaintiff that the plaintiff has instituted the present action for and on
behalf of defendant No.3 as derivative action because defendant No.3 is
unable to from instituting the present action in its own name. It is
alleged in the plaint by the plaintiff that the inability has attached to
defendant No.3 as plaintiff and defendant No.1 are equal share-holders
in defendant No.3 and since disputes have arisen between them,
defendant No.3 is prevented from passing any resolution to institute any
suit in its own name. The plaintiff has also instituted the present suit in
his own capacity as a shore-holder having 50% share-holding in
defendant No.3, for violation of his individual membership rights that
arises from a contract between himself and defendant No.3 by virtue of
its Memorandum of Association (MOA) as also under the common law. (i) In the case of Starlite Real Estate (ASCOT) Mauritius
 Limited and Ors. v. Jagrati Trade Services Private
 Limited and Ors. , decided on 14th May, 2015 by the High
 Court of Calcutta in G.A. No.2437/2014 and CS No.284/2014,
 paras 30 to 34 & 39, it was observed as under:- (Per Lawton in Nurcomba v. Nurcomba; 1985 (1)
 WLR 370 at Page 376). 32. As a general rule, the courts will not interfere
 in matters of internal administration. It is for the
 majority of shareholders to decide the manner in
 which the affairs of the company are to be
 conducted. This principle was laid down in the
 celebrated case of Foss v. Harbottle. The court held
 that in the case of an injury to the corporation, it is
 for the corporation to sue in its own name and CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 35 of 83 individual shareholders cannot assume to themselves
 the right of suing in the name of corporation. The
 effect of the rule is that the majority shareholders
 cannot complain of any irregular act which the
 majority are entitled to do regularly. The
 circumstances in which minority shareholders'
 actions are allowable constitute the exceptions to the
 rule in Foss v. Harbottle. Such an action is filed by
 the shareholder in his own name but is for the
 benefit and advantage of the company. The person
 filing a derivative claim has to show that the
 company has a right to sue but being indulgent in
 the matter is not likely to sue and, therefore, he gets
 a derivative authority to sue. (Birch v. Sullivan; 1958
 (1) All ER 56] 33. This type of action is a derivative
 action, i.e. the right to sue and enforce the right are
 derived from the company. The shareholders as such
 have no such right. If their own personal rights are
 being infringed they may bring a representative
 action. The reliefs in such an actions would be
 essentially, primarily and solely for the benefit of the
 company as opposed to vindication and enforcement
 of the personal rights of the named plaintiffs though
 there could be a thin dividing line between the two,
 namely, personal rights and corporate rights. Satya
 Charan Law (supra) brings out the essence of such
 an action in the following words:- Lushington, (1877) 6 Ch. D. 70: (46 L.J. Ch. 317),
 specific reference was made to the fact that the
 directors, being the custodians of the seal of the
 company, were the persons who should normally
 sue in the name of the company, but nevertheless
 it was held that the majority of the share-holders
 were entitled to sue in the name of the company
 when relief was sought against the directors
 themselves. Even in Automatic Self-Cleansing
 Filter Syndicate Co. Ltd. v. Cunninghame, (1906) 2
 Ch. 34: (75 L.J. Ch. 437), it was recognised that
 "misconduct" on the part of the director provided
 an exception to the rule laid down in that case." 34. In Jhajharia Bros. (supra) the form of a
 derivative actions was discussed and it was held that
 if a wrong is done to the company a special form of
 suit can be adopted as a matter of machinery to
 obtain relief under special and peculiar
 circumstances. It states:- These cases of "fraud upon the minority" however
 are, in my opinion, only special examples of an
 action by the company for what is in theory
 regarded as a wrong done to the company, a
 special form of the suit being adopted as a matter
 of machinery to obtain relief under special and
 peculiar circumstances. If the wrongdoer has the
 balance of power, and, therefore, the company
 does not take action, there are two courses open.
 The minority may take the risk and boldly use the
 company's name. The other course, and what has
 been thought to be the better course, where the
 wrongful act is supported by the majority, is for
 the minority shareholders to sue in their own name
 or, as a matter of convenience, for a shareholder
 to sue on behalf of himself and all the other share-
 holders. If, however, as generally happens and
 must happen logically, the wrong-doers are also
 shareholders, these shareholders as a matter of
 course must be excluded from the category of the
 plaintiffs; hence the phrase "except those who are
 defendants." In a suit so brought, the complaint is said to be a
 "fraud on the minority." If by this it is understood
 that the minority in a company have some natural
 right to sue a majority which is oppressing it, if it
 is suggested that there is any such thing legally as
 a wrong done by a bigger group to a smaller group
 within the company and, therefore, there is a class
 of action by a minority qua minority against a
 majority qua majority, I disagree. There can be no
 such thing as a legal war of parties. Brown v. British Abrasive Wheel Co. is in my opinion not an
 authority for such a theory nor did Mr. Sanyal cite
 it as such. In that case, if I remember rightly, the
 Court would not allow an alteration of articles so CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 38 of 83 that the majority could appropriate a small
 minority. It was not allowed as being contrary to
 justice. The real significance of it, in my opinion, is
 that it was a violation of the constitution, so to
 speak, the rights in other words of all shareholders
 who are all citizens. Although this is a matter of
 theory its results on matters of practice are
 unusually important. The primary wrong is the
 wrong done to the company; in other words all the
 shareholders. There is, it is true, a secondary
 wrong in the suppression of the opposition of the
 minority, the overwhelming of the minority. In the
 normal case the distinction is purely theoretical,
 the wrong-doers are themselves the majority. I
 can conceive, however, of cases where the
 distinction may become apparent, in other words,
 where the primary wrong-doers, those committing
 the fraud or the wrongful act, are not themselves
 the majority but get the support of the majority." 39. The pleadings in the suit if taken, as a whole,
 would clearly indicate that the plaintiffs are seeking
 to enforce their personal cause of action as opposed
 to derivative action. The same would be further clear
 from Paragraph 41 of the Plaint where the plaintiffs
 have specifically stated that the defendants in
 collusion and conspiracy with each other have
 perpetrated fraud on the plaintiffs through the
 proforma defendant. This sentence clearly indicates
 that it is a wrong done to the plaintiffs. It makes it
 very clear that the plaintiffs are espousing their
 personal cause of action. A party to a contract with
 the company is no way concerned with the inter se
 disputes between the directors. In case of a dispute
 with regard to the internal management of the
 Company and as to who would represent the
 company and/or authorize to represent the company,
 the proper course is to file a suit for declaration and
 injunction and to seek appropriate remedy against
 the miscreant directors and for persons asserting
 their right as directors. In the instant case, it
 appears that there are disputes with regard to the CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 39 of 83 internal management of the proforma defendant
 company. The orders disclosed in this proceeding
 would not show that the defendant Nos. 3 to 5 were
 not authorized to represent the said company in the
 arbitration proceeding. This observation, however, is
 not an expression of opinion with regard to the claim
 of the plaintiffs against the said defendant Nos. 3 to
 5, that the said defendants have ceased to become
 directors. The said defendant No. 1 is no way
 concerned with the inter se disputes between the
 plaintiffs and the defendant Nos. 3 to 5. Although,
 the plaintiffs have asserted that the said defendants
 for long years have ceased to become directors and
 since 2009 the said defendants were not entitled to
 hold themselves as directors but the plaintiffs did not
 take recourse to any legal proceeding to prevent the
 said defendants from asserting their rights as
 directors since even thereafter the said defendants
 continued to assert their right as directors that had
 resulted in various litigation. Even if it is assumed
 that the defendant No. 1 is aware of the inter se
 disputes between the plaintiffs and the defendant
 Nos. 3 to 5, the defendant No. 1 is under no
 obligation to disclose such dispute before the
 arbitrator since the claim of the defendant No. 1 is
 against the proforma defendant. The defendant No. 1
 appears to have been roped in by clever drafting, in
 order to avoid the award passed against the
 proforma defendant. The reliefs claimed in the plaint
 so far as it seeks a declaration that the award
 against the defendant No. 1 is non est, illegal and
 not enforceable and the said award is required to be
 set aside, in my view, having regard to the frame of
 the suit is not maintainable and barred by law. The
 challenge to the award has now become barred by
 limitation. It is settled law that what cannot be done
 directly cannot be permitted to be done indirectly. It
 is not been alleged that the proforma defendant was
 prevented by the said defendants Nos. 3 to 5 to
 challenge the award." 44. Ms.Geeta Luthra, learned Senior counsel has also strongly relied
upon another decision in the case of Darius Rutton Kavasmaneck v.
Gharda Chemicals Limited , (2015) 191 CompCas 52 (Bom), para
45, wherein it was held as under:- "45. A derivative action is not maintainable if the Plaintiff
 has an ulterior motive in bringing the action as then it
 cannot be regarded as bona-fide in the interest of the
 company. This is the principle followed in common law as is
 evident from the decision of the Court of Appeal in England
 in Barrett Vs. Duckett and Others [1995] 1 BCLC 243
 where at page 250, paragraph 6 it was held: Further at page 256 it was held: 45. As per settled law, the Director is not permitted to retain secret
profits which he makes by using information or property or
opportunities which belong to his/her company. Consequences have
to be followed if director places himself/herself in a position where
his/her personal interest or duty is liable to conflict with the duties to
the Company of which he is Director unless the Company gives its
consent in writing. Even if his/her company may or may not be
benefitted from the same, the said party is under a duty to pay over to
the company which he or she has betrayed by disloyalty. Without the
need of any proven breach, the Court may set-aside a transaction
entered into in the shadow of such a conflict. In an appropriate case, it
may also restrain entry into such a transaction or restrain the Director
from involving in a conflict conduct. As per "Corpus Juris Secundum - Volume 18", a corporate
fiduciary may not appropriate to his or her own use a business
opportunity which in equity and fairness belongs to the corporation.
The corporation may bring an action for an accounting of the secret
profits of a promoter, or, in a proper case, it may bring an action for
damages for fraud, or it may rescind the transaction. An action may
be brought by the corporation, its receiver or stockholders, depending
on the circumstances of the case, and the promoter has the burden to CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 43 of 83 prove that he or she has been true to his or her fiduciary duties.
Subscribers to stock may, in the case of fraud or breach of trust
resulting in injury to them individually, maintain an action against the
promoters to compel them to return or to account for any funds which
they have received and misappropriated, and for a proper share of any
secret profits. 46. In the case of Dr. Satya Charan Law and others v.
Rameshwar Prasad Bajoria and others, AIR (37) 1950 Federal
Court 133, para 42, wherein it was held as under:- 47. The Kerala High Court in the case of Joseph v. Jos , AIR 1965
Ker 68, observed as under:- 48. In case the above said decisions are read in a meaningful
manner, the circumstances would clearly go in favour of the plaintiff
and against the submission of defendant No.1 and 2 that the suit filed
by the plaintiff as derivative action is not maintainable. The facts in
the present case would speak for themselves as defendant No.1 has
stated her business obviously in order to harm the business of
defendant No.3-Company. There is sufficient material on record in this
regard. 49. Thus, prima-facie, this Court is of the view that derivative action
filed by the plaintiff against defendants No.1 and 2 and on behalf of
defendant No.3 is maintainable. The plaint cannot be rejected as
alleged by defendants No.1 and 2. 50. Next objection of the defendants No.1 and 2 is that the company
has not authorized the plaintiff to file any such action. The suit of the
plaintiff is without any cause of action, as he has filed the suit as
shareholder to the extent of 50% in the shareholding of defendant
No.3-Company for violation of his individual membership rights.
The remedy for the plaintiff, if any, is a petition under Section
397 / 398 of the Companies Act, 1956 before Company Law Board. 51. There is no provision in the Companies Acts that enables a
company to approach the Company Law Board for a wrong done to the
Company in view of competing business started by the defendant No.1
being the Director of defendant No.3. Defendant No.1 has not denied
the fact that she has incorporated the company K.D. Campus -
defendant No.2 who is doing the similar business. She has also not
denied the fact that defendant No.2 was advertising the name
Paramount which gives the impression that somehow, the defendant
No.2 is associated with the defendant No.3 or a branch of it or the
same is authorized by defendant No.3. The relatives of defendant
No.1 are also the Directors and working in the company of defendant
No.2, at the same time, her real sister is employed with defendant
No.3. Whether the civil common remedy is maintainable in view of
earlier discussion in the matter? The common law remedy is one of
the facets of tort. 52. Let the issue mentioned above be examined. The language of Section 399 (1956 Act) is similar as Section 241 (2013 Act). Both
provisions reads as under:- Section 241 (2013 Act) 241. Application to Tribunal for relief in cases of
 oppression, etc.--(1) Any member of a company who
 complains that-- (a) the affairs of the company have been or are being
 conducted in a manner prejudicial to public interest or
 in a manner prejudicial or oppressive to him or any
 other member or members or in a manner prejudicial to
 the interests of the company; or (b) the material change, not being a change brought
 about by, or in the interests of, any creditors, including
 debenture-holders or any class of shareholders of the
 company, has taken place in the management or
 control of the company, whether by an alteration in the
 Board of Directors, or manager, or in the ownership of
 the company's shares, or if it has no share capital, in its
 membership, or in any other manner whatsoever, and
 that by reason of such change, it is likely that the
 affairs of the company will be conducted in a manner
 prejudicial to its interests or its members or any class
 of members,
 may apply to the Tribunal, provided such member has a
 right to apply under Section 244 , for an order under this
 Chapter. (2) The Central Government, if it is of the opinion that the
 affairs of the company are being conducted in a manner
 prejudicial to public interest, it may itself apply to the
 Tribunal for an order under this Chapter." 53. After going through the documents placed on record, it appears
that the present suit is filed on behalf of the Company. If the
Company was in a position to pass a resolution to institute a suit
against a Director indulging in competing business, the suit would have
been filed on behalf of the Company itself. As the Company is CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 48 of 83 prevented from passing a resolution, the suit has been instituted in the
name of the plaintiff on behalf of the Company. The Company in the
present circumstances itself is not in a position to file the suit or any
petition before the Company Law Board. Therefore, the Court is to
read the plaintiff to be the company and not Mr.Rajeev Saumitra in
view of peculiar facts and circumstances in the present case. The language of Sections 397 and 398 of 1956 Act is quite
similar to Sections 241 and 242 of the 2013 Act. The said Sections do
not exclude the jurisdiction of the Civil Court. 54. In the case of N.P.Ponnuswami v. The Returning Officer,
Namakkal Constituency, Namakkal, Salem Dist . And others, AIR
1952 SC 64, the Supreme Court held as under:- The rule laid down in this passage was approved by the
 House of Lords in Neville v. London Express News Paper
 Limited (1919) A.C. 368 and has been reaffirmed by the
 Privy Council in Attorney-General of Trinidad and Tobago v.
 Gordons Grant & Co. ( 1935) A.C. 532 and Secretary of
 State v. Mask & Co (1940) 44 C.W.N. 709; and it has also
 been held to be equally applicable to enforcement of rights
 : see Hurdutrai v. Official Assignee of Calcutta (1948) 52
 C.W.N. 343, 349. That being so, I think it will be a fair
 inference from the provisions of the Representation of the
 people Act to state that the Act provides for only one
 remedy, that remedy being by an election petition to be
 presented after the election is over, and there is no
 remedy provided at any intermediate stage." 55. During the course of hearing, Ms.Luthra has argued that there is
bar to Civil Court under Sections 291 (1956 Act) and 430 (2013 Act). Section 291 stipulates the general powers of the Board. As regards Section 430 , the same has not been notified, which fact is not denied
by the counsel. i) In the case of K. Saravanan and another v. Cosmopolis
 Properties (P) Ltd. and others , (2013) 1 Comp LJ 343
 (Mad), in para 27, it was observed as under:- ii) Yet in other case titled as Ravindra Veer Singh v. TBH
 Breweries India Private Limited, MFA No.475/2015 and
 others , decided on 20th February, 2015, in para 15, it was
 held as under:- iii) In another case titled as Avanthi Explosives P. Ltd. v. Principal Subordinate Judge, Tirupathi, and another,
 [1987] 62 CompCas 301 (AP), it was observed as under:- In Foss v. Horbottle, [1843] 2 Hare 461, the minority
 shareholders alleged that the company had a claim in
 damages against some of the directors by reason of
 the fraudulent acts of those directors, but at the
 general meeting, the majority resolved that no action
 should be taken against them. Two of the minority
 shareholders took legal proceedings against the
 directors and others to compel them to make good
 the losses to the company. The court dismissed the
 action on the ground that, as the acts of the
 directors were capable of confirmation by the
 majority of members, the court should not interfere.
 it was thus left to the majority to decide what was
 for the benefit of the company. This rule has been
 applied in several cases later, vide MacDougall v.
 Gardiner [1875] 1 Ch 13. The procedural character of the rule in Foss v.
 Harbottle [1843] 2 Hare 461, was explained by
 Jenkins L. J. in the Edwards v. Halliwell [1950] 2 All
 ER 1064, 1066 (CA). Palmer in his Company law, 21st edition (1968),
 points out that in English company law, while the
 substantive aspects of the rule of the majority are
 not neglected, the emphasis is on the procedural
 character of that rule. The reasoning on which the
 rule is founded is that in these cases, it is for the
 company to complain. by suing the alleged
 wrongdoer. The company is thus the proper plaintiff
 and the company is ruled by the majority. However, the following exceptions to the rule in Foss
 v. Harbottle, [1843] 2 Hare 461, are admitted as
 pointed out by Jenkins L. J. in Edwards v. Halliwell
 [1950] 1 All ER 1064, namely, the majority cannot
 confirm - (1) an act which is ultra vires the company or illegal;
 (2) an act which constitutes a fraud against the
 minority and the wrongdoers are themselves in
 control of the company; or

 (3) a resolution which requires a qualified majority
 but has been passed by a simple majority. In other words, the rule in Foss v. Harbottle
 [1843] 2 Hare 461 does not apply to such acts as
 referred to above inasmuch as the majority cannot
 sanction those acts. A resolution which is ultra vires
 or illegal or is a fraud on the minority or is not bona
 fide or for the benefits of the company as a whole or
 is intended to discriminate between the majority
 shareholders and the minority shareholders, is illegal
 and can be questioned by a separate action in the
 civil court. The reason for this is that if the minority
 were denied that right, their grievance could never
 reach the court because the wrongdoers themselves
 being in control, do not allow the company to sue. In CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 53 of 83 some cases, it has been held that further exceptions
 to the rule in Foss v. Harbottl, [1843] 2 Hare 461,
 are permissible in cases in which "justice requires
 that the courts should intervene" to assist an
 otherwise minority shareholder. In Heyting v.
 Dupont, [1964] 1 WLR 843, Harman L. J. said (at
 page 854) : The above rule in Foss v. Harbottle, [1843] 2
 Hare 461, has come up for consideration in several
 High Courts in our country. K.K. Mathew J. (as he then was) was dealing in Joseph v. Jos , [1964] 34 Comp Cas 931 (Ker), with a
 suit for a declaration that the proceedings of the
 meeting regarding the election of certain directors
 was null and void and for a permanent injunction
 restraining defendants Nos. 3 to 5 therein from
 functioning as director and for directing the
 defendant-company to hold a meeting for re-electing
 three directors. After referring to the rule in Foss v.
 Harbottle, [1843] 2 hare 461. and the exceptions
 thereto, the learned judge made a distinction
 between "individual membership right' and the
 "corporate membership right" of a shareholder. It
 was held that the rule against interference by court
 with the internal management of companies, was not
 applicable to cases of infringement of the individual
 membership right. The learned judge quoted from
 Palmer's Company Law, 20th edition, page 492: (emphasis supplied) 56. In the case of Norma (India) Ltd. v. Sameer Khandelwal
and Ors. , reported in 2007(93) DRJ 318, in paras 14 and 24, it was
held as under:- 57. In another case titled as CDS Financial Services (Mauritius)
Limited v. BPL Communications Limited and Others , (2004) 121
CC 374 (Bom) (DB), it was held as under:- Such a provision, however, does not exclude those
 cases where the provisions of the particular Act have
 not been complied with or the statutory tribunal has not
 acted in conformity with the fundamental principles of
 judicial procedure. (2) Where there is an express bar of jurisdiction of the
 court an examination of the scheme of the particular
 Act to find the adequacy or the sufficiency of the
 remedies provided may be relevant but is not decisive
 to sustain the jurisdiction of the civil Court. Where
 there is no express exclusion, the examination of the
 remedies and the scheme of the particular Act to find
 out the intendment becomes necessary and the result
 of the inquiry may be decisive. In the latter case, it is
 necessary if the statute creates a special right or
 liability and provides for the determination of the right
 or liability and further lays downs that all questions
 about the said right or liability shall be determined by
 the Tribunals so constituted, and whether remedies
 normally associated with action in civil courts are
 prescribed by the said statute or not... An exclusion of the jurisdiction of the civil court is not
 readily to be inferred unless the conditions above set
 out apply." In Raja Ram Kumar Bhargava vs. Union of India , [1988]
 171 ITR 254, the principle regarding implied exclusion of
 jurisdiction has been explained as follows (page 261 of 171
 ITR): From the above two decisions of the Supreme Court it is
 clear that when there is no express provision excluding
 jurisdiction of the civil courts, such exclusion can be
 implied only in cases where a right itself is created and the
 machinery for enforcement of such right is also provided by
 the statute. If the right is traceable to general law of
 contract or it is a common law right, it can be enforced
 through civil court, even though the forum under the
 statute also will have jurisdiction to enforce that right." 57.1 In the case of Ganga Ram Hospital Trust v. Municipal
Corporation of Delhi , 2001(60) DRJ 549, para 16, it was held as
under:- 58. Mr.Sandeep Sethi, learned Senior counsel appearing on behalf of
defendants No.1 and 2 has also addressed his submissions by stating
that even the suit is barred under Section 166 of the 2013 Act. He
says that the common law remedy is not available. The plaintiff has
no privity with K.D. Campus Pvt. Ltd. He referred the decision of the
Court in the case of HB Stockholding Ltd. v. DCM Shriram
Industries Ltd. and Ors. , decided on 25th August, 2009. 59. Section 166 stipulates 'Duties of a Director to a Company' and
not 'Rights of Shareholders'. In case a Director violates the duties
prescribed in Section 166 , the cause of action accrues in favour of the
company. The said section is akin to the common law right. It is
merely repository to the Director's fiduciary duties. It does not apply
to the shareholder. The defendant No.1 is still a Director of defendant
No.3. The argument is that the restraint of entering into competing
business does not apply to a shareholder. Therefore, there is no force
in the submission of Mr.Sethi in view of the facts of the present case.
The common law does not prevent the plaintiff to take protection of
common law rights, even if the statute excludes it specifically. Reliance CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 58 of 83 is placed on Avanthi (supra). The decision referred by Mr.Sethi does
not help the case of defendants No.1 and 2. i) In the case of Sangramsinh P. Gaekwad and others v. Shantadevi P. Gaekwad (Dead) through LRs. And
 others, (2005) 11 SCC 314, in para 39, it was held as
 under:- In any case, even promoter/majority shareholders are
 fiduciaries to the company as well as the other shareholders
 because they control the assets of the other shareholders
 who cannot play a fraud on the minority. ii) Kossoy and Filco v. Bank Feuchtwanger Ltd., CA 817/79,
 P.D., vol. 38(3) 253, paras 55-58 whereof reads as under:- (see A. Felman, Applied Israeli Corporate Law (Karni,
 3rd ed., 1981) vol. II, at 594). 56. Within the scope of this appeal, we have no
 need to discuss at length whether a shareholder is CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 60 of 83 under any general duty of loyalty towards the
 company and towards the other shareholders. We are
 dealing with a new matter, with extensive practical
 and theoretical implications, and we will therefore do
 well if we act cautiously in developing this matter,
 answering any concrete questions arising and aiming
 to formulate an over-all approach on the basis of
 past experience. For the purpose of the appeal before
 us, the following proposition will suffice: a controlling
 shareholder who wishes to sell his shares owes a
 duty of loyalty to the company with respect to the
 sale, and must act in good faith and honesty toward
 it, and he will be in breach of his duty if he sells his
 shares to a buyer who to the best of his knowledge
 will strip the company of its assets and lead to its
 insolvency. This duty has been recognized in the
 United States for many years (see Insuranshares
 Corporation v. Northern Fiscal Finance Corp. (1940)
 [22]; Levy v. Feinberg (1941) [23]; Dale v. Thomas
 H. Temple Co. (1948) [24]). In this regard, where
 the transaction takes place in a number of stages,
 which in commercial terms could be viewed as a
 series, its entirety can also be viewed as a single
 entity in legal terms. Accordingly, a breach of loyalty
 can also be attributed to a shareholder with regard to
 actions which are to take place in the future,
 provided that they are foreseeable and constitute a
 part of the entire scheme, or series of actions (see
 Pepper v. Litton (1939) [25]). The basis of this duty
 rests on the fundamental principle discussed earlier: 57. One may well ask what is the source in our law
 of this duty of loyalty of shareholders? We have
 already provided the answer. It is a known,
 recognized principle in our law that a holder of the
 controlling interest is subject to a series of duties of
 loyalty, which are designed to limit the one in control
 from abusing his power. This principle is expressed in
 many branches of the law, and is also expressed in
 corporate law. Accordingly, the duty of loyalty is
 incumbent upon the promoter and upon the director.
 By virtue of the self-same principle, the duty of
 loyalty also rests upon the holder of the controlling
 shares with regard to their sale. The promoter,
 director and controlling shareholder wield power,
 which they hold in trust, as Professor Berle said more
 than fifty years ago, "corporate powers as powers in
 trust" (see Berle, supra, and Pepper v. Litton (1939)
 [25], at 306). Indeed no formal specific recognition
 of this duty of loyalty on the part of a shareholder
 has yet been made in our legal system, but the
 fundamental principle upon which it is based has
 been part of our system for years. On the basis of
 this well-known, recognized fundamental principle,
 we are fully entitled to deduce new secondary duties,
 to suit our needs. An example of another field in
 which there has been a similar development is the
 field of negligence in torts, in which from time to
 time this court recognizes new duties of care in CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 62 of 83 regard to negligence - this on the basis of the
 general principle of negligence as recognized by our
 system. This being so, we are no longer required to
 examine whether the very same result could be
 arrived at on the basis of the application of the
 principle of good faith specified in Section 39 of the
 Contracts Law (General Part), 5733-1973. 58. I have already stated that the duty of loyalty
 requires concretization, within which the unique legal
 relationship upon which the duty of loyalty is based
 must be expressed. The content of this duty of
 loyalty is not identical in all legal relationships in
 which it lies. The duty of loyalty of a director is not
 the same as the duty of loyalty of a shareholder. It
 must not be forgotten that a shareholder is an owner
 of property, and according to the general law of title,
 he is entitled to do whatever he pleases with his
 property. This freedom is not unrestricted, since one
 of the restrictions derives from the fact that the
 holding of the share gives him control of the
 company and this control requires him to act
 honestly, in good faith and for the good of the
 company. This conduct - which is part of the general
 regime of the duty of loyalty - is the result of a
 suitable balance of the right of ownership on the one
 hand, and control of the company on the other. The
 need for this balance is unique to a shareholder, and
 is not present in other relationships. A director is not
 permitted to sell his position, and there is no need to
 balance any such "freedom of sale" with his status as
 a director. Therefore, one cannot say that the duty of
 loyalty of a controlling shareholder is the same as the
 duty of loyalty of a director. Each duty of loyalty has
 its own content, since every power has its own
 extent. What balance is appropriate in the case of a
 controlling shareholder? This question has many
 facets, and we are interested in the balance
 appropriate to the sale of shares. In the matter at
 hand, it may be said that the controlling shareholder
 is free to sell his shares to any purchaser. unless he
 knows that the purchaser is about to acquire control CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 63 of 83 of the company and strip it of its assets. This
 provides the appropriate balance between the
 prerogative of ownership on the one hand, and the
 protection of the good of the company on the other.
 This law is similar to another principle present in our
 system, whereby ownership does not justify the
 carrying out of an act which harms someone else
 (which is equivalent to section 14 of the Lands Law,
 5729-1969). This principle protects the freedom of
 property and the shareholder's right to do whatever
 he pleases with his shares on the one hand, and
 assures protection of the interests of the company on
 the other. This principle is common in the United
 States both in the literature (see A. Hill, "The Sale of
 Controlling Shares," 70 Harv. L. Rev. 986 (1956-57);
 A.A. Berle, " 'Control' in Corporate Law," 58 Colum.
 L. Rev. (1958) 1212; Comment, "Sales of Corporate
 Control and the Theory of Overkill," 31 U. Chi. L.
 Rev. (1963-64) 725) and in case law (see
 Insuranshares [22]; Levy v. American Beverage
 Corporation (1942) [26]; Gerdes v. Reynolds (1941)
 [27]; Dale [24]). Note: I do not mean to say that we
 must adopt the balance extant in the United States
 between the ownership of a share and the power of
 control granted by the share, or that we must follow
 their approach in everything related to controlling
 shares. The matter before us raises a specific
 question, involving the breach of loyalty in the sale of
 controlling shares and liability to indemnify the
 company for the loss it suffered. Here we can learn
 from the balance present in the United States.
 Should other problems arise in the future - such as
 the "price" of control; whether the consideration for
 the sale of control belongs to the company itself, and
 whether a basis for the formation of the duty is the
 vendor's actual knowledge of the purchaser's
 intentions, or whether it suffices that he did not know
 in a case where a reasonable shareholder should
 have known; and other similar questions which have
 been raised in the United States - we will deal with
 them when, as and if they arise." 60. The defendant No.1 in the present case has failed to cross the
hurdle of the mandatory provision of Section 166 which is incorporated
in April 2014 in the new Act. The plaintiff has filed solid evidence
which is unimpeachable, thus common remedy is available to the
plaintiff against the act of defendant No.1. Therefore, in view of the
above said facts and circumstances, the civil suit is not barred under Sections 397 and 398 of the Companies Act, 1956 and Section 166 of
the 2013 Act. 61. With regard to other arguments addressed on behalf of
defendants No.1 and 2 about the reduction of shareholding,
Mr.P.V.Kapur submits that the allegation of defendant No.1 that her
equity was reduced by 9%, is incorrect and in any event very belated.
The incident occurred in 2013 and she knew about it. It happened
because she had less balance on the company account and it was
restored. Hence, there is no much relevance in deciding the issue in
hand. As far as the allegations of embezzlement are concerned,
Mr.Kapur has mentioned that she too was paid the similar amount, i.e.
Rs.47 lacs and the account was settled. In any case, the issue
regarding reduction of her equity and even otherwise, Rs.47 lac is the
subject matter of the Section 397 , 398 petition filed by her before the
Company Law Board. Thus, it is not necessary at this stage to decide
this disputed fact. Even otherwise, the alleged reduction and Rs.47 lac
allegation cannot justify her setting up competing businesses in
violation of her common law/statutory duty. 62. The next submission of Ms.Luthra is that the facts of this nature
of the case would establish that it should be treated as quasi-
partnership dispute. The Supreme Court in the case of Kilpest Pvt. Ltd. and others v. Shekhar Mehra , (1996) 10 Supreme Court Cases
696, in para 11 has held as under:- Without prejudice to the rights of both the parties, even this
Court is of the considered view that the plaintiff and defendant No.1
should resolve their disputes. They are husband and wife and they
have only one child. For the purpose of settlement, the matter was
discussed many times in Chamber as well as in open Court, but it
could not be resolved despite final proposed settlement of terms
handed over to the defendant No.1 who although agreed to many
major terms. Copy of the same and the comments and modification
made by the defendant No.1 has been placed on record. As it could not
finally materialize, both the parties submit that let the interim
application be decided on merit. 63. Lastly, it is argued by Ms.Luthra that the suit is barred under Order II Rule 2 CPC . She submits that despite of pendency of the first
suit being CS(OS) No.1592/2015, the plaintiff has filed another suit
before this Court without the first withdrawal of the suit and sought
liberty. In addition it is also submitted that the relief in the present
suit and prayer in Rohini Court is the same. If not at least, it could
have been incorporated in the earlier suit filed in Rohini court. As the CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 66 of 83 prayer in the present suit was not made earlier, the present suit is
barred under Order II Rule 2 CPC . 64. As far as Rohini suits are concerned, admittedly, earlier the
plaintiff filed the Civil Suit No.78/2015 titled as Rajiv Saumitra v.
Neetu Singh , seeking inter-alia the relief restraining the defendant
from using the initial name of PARAMOUNT from M/s Paramount
Coaching Centre Pvt. Ltd., for her personal and individual benefits in
publication of books, journals including Paramount Reader Publication
books in the name of PARAMOUNT Test Series and other books, such
as, English, Arithmetic, SSC Tier I, SSC Tier II, SSC CGL, Biology,
Chemistry, Banking, Interview and in all printed and online material
and other material either in the form of books, journals or in the form
of "Soft" copy or in "On-line material". The said suit thereafter was
withdrawn on 17th August, 2015 from the Court of Sh.Satish Kumar,
ADJ, Rohini Courts, Delhi, with liberty to file the fresh suit. Subsequently on the same cause of action, the plaintiff filed another
suit being Civil Suit No.217/2015 titled as Rajeev Saumitra v. Neetu
Singh & Ors. , which is pending in the Court of Sh.Satish Kumar, ADJ,
Rohini Courts, New Delhi. The interim order has been passed on 15 th
September, 2015 restraining inter-alia, defendant No.1 from using the
name PARAMOUNT for her personal and individual benefit or in any of
her publications, or in any soft copy, or in online material and further
from indulging in competing business. An appeal was filed by the
defendant No.1 against the plaintiff which is pending. An application
under Order XXXIX Rule 2A CPC has also been filed by the plaintiff. 65. Later on, the plaintiff filed the suit being CS(OS) No.1592/2015
titled as Rajeev Saumitra v. Neetu Singh in this Court which was also CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 67 of 83 withdrawn on 24th September, 2015. The relevant paras 14 to 18
reads as under: In case, the contents of para 19-23 and 25 of fresh suit are
 read, there is no force in the submission of the learned
 counsel for the defendants that the second suit is not
 maintainable when the first suit was still pending. It is a
 matter of fact that the plaintiff has filed the second suit in
 a transparent manner, nothing has been concealed by the
 plaintiff from the Courts. Prima facie valid reasons have
 been given to file the fresh suit. The interim order was
 neither passed in the first suit nor in the second suit, the
 plaintiff has pressed for an ex parte order without
 withdrawing the first suit filed by the plaintiff. In the
 second suit, even the summons and notice were not
 issued. On the first date itself, when the suit was listed,
 the learned counsel for the plaintiff had informed the Court
 that the first suit was listed before Hon'ble the Judge
 Incharge (Original Side), on mentioning, the said suit was
 transferred to this Court. Counsel for the plaintiff has
 alleged that as there is defect in the first suit, in order to
 avoid delay for the purpose of filing the amendment
 application in the first suit, rather the plaintiff has chosen
 to file fresh suit as the plaintiff is seeking urgent interim
 orders. There is a force in the submissions of the learned
 Senior counsel for the plaintiff. 16. As far as the objections raised by the defendants that
 there is no bonafide on the part of the plaintiff to file the
 second suit in order to enhance the pecuniary jurisdiction
 and the second suit is hit by Order II Rule 2 CPC are
 concerned, the said submissions cannot be considered
 while deciding the present application. However, the
 defendants are granted liberty to raise the said objections
 in the second suit filed by the plaintiff. Therefore, at the
 present moment the bonafide of the plaintiff cannot be
 doubted. As far as the objection of pecuniary jurisdiction is
 concerned, so far no matter has been ordered to be
 transferred. In view of enhancement of pecuniary
 jurisdiction, merely a notification has been issued. Thus,
 no malafide is found at present. 17. In view of the above, the prayer made in the
 application is allowed. Consequently, the plaintiff is
 permitted to withdraw the first suit being CS (OS)
 No.1592/2015, with liberty to file the fresh suit which is
 already filed by the plaintiff. The said suit is accordingly
 dismissed as withdrawn. Pending applications also stand
 disposed of. 18. I.A. No.17610/2015 is disposed of." 66. As mentioned above, it is the admitted position that the present
suit was filed before any order was passed in the application filed by
the plaintiff under Order 23 Rule 1 CPC for withdrawal on formal
defect as alleged by the plaintiff. 67. In the present application under Order XXXIX Rules 1 & 2 CPC ,
the temporary injunctions and directions as prayed for be granted for
the following reasons: 68. The said order dated 24th September, 2015 has not been
challenged by the defendant No.1 and 2 as alleged. Reliance is placed
upon the case titled as K.S. Bhoopathy and Others v. Kokila and
Others , (2000) 5 Supreme Court Cases 458, paras 12 & 13, wherein
it was held as under:- 13. The provision in Order XXIII Rule 1 CPC is an
 exception to the common law principle of non-suit.
 Therefore on principle an application by a plaintiff under
 sub-rule (3) cannot be treated on a par with an application
 by him in exercise of the absolute liberty given to him
 under sub-rule (1). In the former it is actually a prayer for CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 71 of 83 concession from the court after satisfying the court
 regarding existence of the circumstances justifying the
 grant of such concession. No doubt, the grant of leave
 envisaged in sub-rule (3) of Rule 1 is at the discretion of
 the court but such discretion is to be exercised by the
 court with caution and circumspection. The legislative
 policy in the matter of exercise of discretion is clear from
 the provisions of sub-rule (3) in which two alternatives are
 provided; first where the court is satisfied that a suit must
 fail by reason of some formal defect, and the other where
 the court is satisfied that there are sufficient grounds for
 allowing the plaintiff to institute a fresh suit for the
 subject-matter of a suit or part of a claim. Clause (b) of
 sub-rule (3) contains the mandate to the court that it must
 be satisfied about the sufficiency of the grounds for
 allowing the plaintiff to institute a fresh suit for the same
 claim or part of the claim on the same cause of action." 69. In case the order already passed on 24th September, 2015 is
read, it is apparent that Suit No.1592/2015 filed by the plaintiff had a
formal defect, as the same was not a derivative action. The plaintiff
during the pendency of first suit became aware that the said action
may not be maintainable. Even no doubt, the application for
amendment could have been filed by amending the plaint. There is a
force in the submission of Mr.Kapur that in order to avoid delay, the
present suit was filed disclosing about the pendency of the earlier suit
and application under Order XXIII Rule 1 CPC . 70. Thus, prima facie, at this stage, this Court felt that the present
suit is not barred under Order II Rule 2 CPC , as it was merely a formal
defect in the suit. Nothing on merit was abandoned or decided on
merit. Full disclosure was made by the plaintiff who has not taken any
advantage of interim order or concealed any fact from the Court.
Thus, the objection at this stage is not sustainable and the same is
rejected. All the relevant pleas raised by the defendant No.1 and 2 CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 72 of 83 have been considered by this Court and the same is accordingly dealt
with. 71. Therefore, seeing the overall situation, one can easily draw
conclusion that the way the defendants No.1 and 2 had been carrying
on business since February, 2015, it amounts to completely competing
the business. The defendant No.1 is in violation of the provisions of Section 166 of Companies Act, 2013. She has failed to assign any
valid reason or justification as to why she being the Director of
defendant No.3 has started parallel business of defendant No.2. If she
had any grievances or the plaintiff is trying to control the business of
defendant No.3 or she was ousted as alleged by her, she had the
remedy and rightly so, she was availing the remedy, but there is
hardly any justification to start parallel/similar to the business of
defendant No.3. Normally, the injunction should have been followed,
however, the facts in the present case are peculiar. Therefore, it is to
be examined, as to what type of order is required to be passed under
the circumstances available in the case. 72. No doubt, defendant No.1 has raised allegations against the
plaintiff. Certain documents by way of photographs are also filed. It is
alleged by the defendant No.1 that the plaintiff has appointed lady
bouncers just to create terror in the mind of the defendant No.1 and
in order to take over the defendant No.3-Company like his
proprietorship. In the month of June, 2015 the plaintiff had
appointed CEO & Chief Advisor of the defendant No.3-Company
which was against the memorandum and articles of association of
the company which was objected to by the defendant No.1 and upon
the interference of the police the CEO and Chief Advisor were asked
to leave the office. Recently keeping aside the memorandum and CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 73 of 83 articles of association of the company, the plaintiff has appointed
many staffs and bouncers which act of the plaintiff is adverse to the
interest of the company. 73. The defendant No.1 has also pleaded that the plaintiff in
connivance with the accountants has started siphoning the money of
the company straightaway to his own account instead of depositing
the same in the company account, which act of the plaintiff is again
adverse to the interest of the company. Recently in the month of
August, 2015, without the consent of the defendant No.1, the
plaintiff had purchased two Bolero Cars and one Car by using the
funds of the company which is also against the company norms.
The Counsellor, namely, Rashmi of Bindapur Centre of the company
was forced to resign as she was threatened by two lady bouncers
sent by the plaintiff and she had no option than to resign because
the defendant No.1 being director of the company was brutally
assaulted by the same lady bouncer. The plaintiff is having no
respect for lady staffs of the company as he is harassing the centre
head of Uttam Nagar namely Manju Singh by sending his goons and
bouncers, to this effect, she has reported the matter to the Police
Station Binda Pur. Not only that without the knowledge and consent
of the defendant No.1, he has opened a new office in Uttam Nagar
and has appointed many new staffs just in order to harass the
centre head Manju Singh and to teach her lesson and compelling
her to resign from the Post of Centre Head of Uttam Nagar Centre
of the company. The negative attitude of the plaintiff towards the
lady staff of the company has compelled so many lady staffs
namely Firdous, Sweta, Ritika, Poonam, Jessica etc. to resign from CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 74 of 83 the company, which attitude of the plaintiff is not in the interest of
the company. 74. It is also stated that the lady bouncer namely Kiran who had
brutally assaulted the defendant No.1 at Munirka Branch has been
promoted and awarded by the plaintiff along with two more
bouncers and she has been functioning as a security head in the
head office of the company because she has succeeded in brutally
assaulting the defendant No.1 at the behest of the plaintiff and
mercilessly thrashing her at Munirka Branch which is reflected in the
photographs already on record. The name of the defendant No.1 has
been removed from the display board of the company by the plaintiff
as he is showing himself to be the sole proprietor of the company. 75. It is pertinent to mention here that Mr.Sandeep Sethi, learned
Senior counsel in the presence of defendant No.1 and after obtaining
instructions at the end of his arguments has made the fair statement
on her behalf that defendant No.1 is now determined to remove the
mark PARAMOUNT from all the promotional material and sign-boards
and she will not use the said mark directly or indirectly in any
manner in relation of imparting education and training. She shall not
approach any student, staff member, teacher or any person of
defendant No.3 in this regard or to pouch the business of defendant
No.3. She is also agreeable if a Local Commissioner is appointed to
verify the position in all centers in Delhi and outside and if any
signboard or advertisement pointed out by the plaintiff through Local
Commissioner of the PARAMOUNT, the defendant No.1 shall remove
the same without loss of time though she has already taken all
necessary steps to remove the same. Mr.Sethi, learned Senior
counsel, also suggested that in order to know the goodwill of the CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 75 of 83 mark PARAMOUNT and business of defendant No.3, let a Chartered
Accountant be appointed who after having gone through the business
of all centers owned by defendant No.3 and after assessing the value
of the goodwill of name of Paramount business within a period of 12
months would give the report and thereafter, both parties should
agree for bidding and the highest bidder should purchase the shares
of another party. Mr.P.V.Kapur, learned Senior counsel for the
plaintiff did not agree for appointment of Chartered Accountant. He
says that why his client should suffer because of the fault of
defendant No.1 who has earned undue gain by filching the goodwill
and name of defendant No.3 by competing the business, rather the
defendants No.1 and 2 be directed to deposit all profits earned with
the defendant No.3. 76. The injunction being an equitable remedy, the court has to
exercise its discretion from various facets which arise in particular set
of circumstances in each matter. There may be cases in which grant
of an injunction will only meet the ends of justice and an alternative
safeguard for the preservation of rights of the challenging party cannot
at all be thought of. 77. The grant or non-grant of injunction has to be measured within
the parameters of three tests laid down by this court. However, the
court must weigh the comparative hardship of one party as against the
another and has to decide whether the injunctory relief is warranted or
whether interim directions would suffice. Injunctions should not result
in extreme prejudice to the defendant. The balance of convenience
doctrine is of essence in cases for consideration of the issue of grant
of injunction. 78. Now, I shall deal with the principles of grant of an interim
injunction i.e. prima facie case, balance of convenience and injury. In
view original documents peculiar facts and circumstances, it is to be
decided as to what extent the interim order can be granted. It is the
admitted position that both plaintiff and defendant No.1 are husband
and wife. Even, as of today, they have 50% shareholding of
defendant No.3-Company. Both are still Directors. They have a small
child. 79. Both companies, i.e. defendant No.3 and defendant No.2 have
hundreds of centres where the large number of students are studying.
They have paid their fees. Careers of teachers and staff members are
also involved. Many centres of defendant No.2-Company are on rent.
Lease deeds are executed. Advance amount has been paid. Thus,
there are many stakeholders. 80. From the allegations made by the defendant No.1 and counter
allegations referred by the plaintiff's counsel, it appears to the Court
prima-facie that until both parties resolve the dispute in hand or till
the decision of suit, some interim arrangement between them is to
be carved out, otherwise there would be no end to litigation and
internal-fight between them. 81. Considering the entire gamut of the matter and peculiar facts
and circumstances of the case, I am of the view that there can be
three scenarios in order to decide the dispute in hand: 82. As Scenarios 1 and 2 are not agreeable to the parties, I am of
the view that third scenario is only the solution at this stage but the
same is subject to the conditions in order to strike the balance. 83. The principle of law relating to temporary injunction during
pendency of the suit is well recognized in the decision of the Supreme CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 78 of 83 Court in the case of Dalpat Kumar v. Prahlad Singh, AIR 1993 SC 276. The relevant portion of the observations of the Supreme Court in
the said case states as under:- The Supreme Court further held : 84. In M/s. Gujarat Bottling Co. Ltd. and others v. Coca Cola
Company and Others , AIR 1995 SC 2372, it was observed as
under:- 85. This Court is conscious about the fact that defendant No.1 being
the Director of defendant No.3 is entitled to 50% net-profit of the
Company but at the same time, as she has violated her fiduciary
duties and is guilty of breach of Section 166 of the Companies Act,
2013, the undue gain already made by her is liable to be paid to the
Company under sub- Section 5 of Section 166 of the Act and the
Director of the company is not to assign his office unless the breach is
stopped. But under no circumstances, the Director can be allowed to
compete the business of the Company, in which he/she is already a CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 80 of 83 Director, to exploit the mark in order to give the impression to the
public at large that he/she has any association or affiliation of the
Company in which he/she is still a Director. 86. As mentioned earlier, Mr.Sandeep Sethi at the end of arguments
has suggested that the defendant No.1 has decided not to exploit the
name Paramount in any manner and/or to do anything which may
harm the continuous business of defendant No.3. However, it is also
directed that the defendant No.3 shall keep the share of net profit of
defendant No.1 in a separate non-lien account and the same shall be
withdrawn by any party without the permission or order of the Court. 87. Under these circumstances, the interim application is disposed of
with the following directions:- defendant No.2 and shall not poach teachers, students or staff
 members of defendant No.3 and within two weeks shall remove
 the word PARAMOUNT from all hoardings, advertisements,
 brochures and other materials and shall not open any new centre
 within the range of 100 meters where the centre of defendant
 No.3 already exists; (ii) she shall furnish the true account from
 February, 2015 till December, 2015 and every quarterly till the
 decision of the suit; the first statement would be filed by 15th
 February, 2016; (iii) she will not create any hurdle in smoothly
 going of defendant No.3 and she shall perform her fiduciary
 duties under the Act and sign all the requisite papers of the
 defendant No.3 and shall not create any hindrance of running
 business of defendant No.3 directly or indirectly. In case of above said compliance and undertaking, the
 defendants No.1 and 2 are allowed to continue with the business
 of defendant No.2. In case of any breach, the plaintiff is entitled
 to move before Court for modification of order and then the
 Court may pass any appropriate orders. 88. Mr.Abhimanyu Mahajan, Advocate (Mobile No.9811103447) is
appointed as a Local Commissioner to oversee the entire situation as
per direction passed by this Court. In case the defendant No.1 wishes
to inspect the record of defendant No.3 or attend the meeting or to
visit office of the Company for any purposes, she will inform the Local
Commissioner so that smooth atmosphere is created in order to avoid
any untoward incident as earlier happened. The defendant No.3 and plaintiff shall also maintain the correct
accounts and to file before this Court from the date of filing of suit till
December, 2015 and continue to file the same every quarterly so that
actual figures of profits of defendant No.2 and defendant No.3 be
ascertained after trial for adjustment purposes. The fee of the Local
Commissioner is fixed at Rs.60,000/- per visit at this stage which shall
be paid by both the parties in equal proportion from the account of
defendant No.3, subject to final adjustment. 89. The present application is disposed of with these directions. The
findings are tentative in nature. The suit after trial be decided as per
its own merit and without any influence of this order passed in the
interim application. 90. No costs. 91. Dasti, under the signatures of the Court Master. List the matter before Roster Bench on 22nd February, 2016. (MANMOHAN SINGH)
 JUDGE
JANUARY 27, 2016 CS(OS) No.2528/2015 Page 83 of 83