 HRT in primary clarifier was high (6.6-6.7 h) vis-à-vis the
 design criteria. High HRT may lead to development of
 septic condition due to high organic fraction and thereby
 may affect the performance of the downstream biological
 process.  The pH of feed to aeration tank was observed to be
 alkaline (range: 7.2-8.7) rather than the desirable range
 (6.8-7.2) necessary for effective bio-oxidation.
 The BOD: Nitrogen: Phosphate (B:N:P) ratio in aeration
 tanks was in the range 100:14.5:0.20 to 100:15.3:0.30
 as against a standard requirement of 100:5:1 for effective
 aerobic bio-oxidation. Thus, effluent routed to aeration
 tank was deficient in phosphates which may affect
 metabolism of bacteria and lead to non-optimal growth
 rate.  The aeration tanks are provided with seven surface
 aerators in addition to diffused aeration. The tanks are
 completely covered from the top to control odour emission
 (Plate 10.03).  The oxygen requirement for oxidation of organics based
 on BOD concentration as monitored was in the range
 2048-2746 KgO2/d. The power requirement to meet the
 oxygen demands through surface aerators alone would be
 in the range, 115-155 HP and through blower would be in
 the range, 100-135 HP, respectively.  The total HP of 7 aerators provided is 115 HP and that of
 the compressor is 100 HP. However, the power efficiency
 (PE) and actual torque at shaft of the seven aerators in
 operation as estimated at site were lower than the rated
 capacity (Table 10.6).  The PE of the seven operational aerators was in the range
 of 48.1-66.8% as against the rated capacities and the
 actual torque at shaft was in the range 59.2-83.3 Nm as
 against the rated torque of 63.0-89.1Nm. Similarly, the PE
 of the compressor was also lower (51.1%).  Thus, the low DO concentration in the aeration tanks
 could also be attributed to the low power efficiencies of
 the existing aerators and compressor.  The low power efficiencies of the surface aerators are due
 to the excessive wear and tear of conveyor V-belts
 causing reduction in torque at shaft of the surface
 aerators. On the other hand, the low PE of the compressor
 is mainly due to non-optimal control of air flow and
 pressure.  It was observed that alum was dosed at the outlet of
 aeration tank and polyelectrolyte was added in the
 secondary clarifier to improve settling of biomass in
 secondary clarifier. The quantity of alum and
 polyelectrolyte addition was ~150 and ~6 kg/d,
 respectively. Due to chemical dosing the sludge from the
 secondary clarifier was rather heterogenous in nature than
 being completely biological. Recycle of such heterogenous
 sludge (chemical and biological) in aeration tank severely
 affects biological activity. This was evident from the visual
 appearance of biomass that appeared discuss and thick as
 floccculant polymer solution. The whitish colour probably
 also indicated the presence of excess polyelectrolyte in
 the aeration tanks, which was dense rather than flocculant
 and whitish in colour due to presence of unreacted
 coagulant/ coagulant aid.  The MLSS and MLVSS concentrations in the aeration tank
 I under the existing operation were in the range 7969-
 9320 and 2330-2568 mg/l, respectively, whereas the
 concentrations in aeration tank II were in the range 8450-
 10600 and 3250-3300 mg/l, respectively.  The ratio of MLVSS and MLSS was in the range 0.29-0.34
 as against the design ratio of 0.8-0.85. This is indicative
 of the presence of inorganic fraction in the biomass from
 aeration tanks due to chemical dosing in aeration tank
 and secondary clarifier thereby resulting in ineffective bio-
 oxidation.  The dissolved oxygen concentration as mentioned in both
 the aeration tanks was nil. This may be attributed to two
 main reasons. Firstly, as the aeration tanks are
 completely covered (Plate 1) hence the atmospheric
 oxygen transfer was negligible, and secondly, oxygen
 transfer efficiency of the surface aerator was low.
 The design parameters, namely food of micro-organisms
 ratio (F/M) and volumetric loading rate (VLR) considering
 both aeration tanks under existing operating conditions
 vis-à-vis design criteria were as follows:  Microscopic analysis of biomass from aeration tanks
 reveals presence of filamentous bacteria. Details of
 species identified and their characteristics are given in
 Table 10.7. The identified species typically were not
 responsible for foam formation in aeration tanks. The
 foaming in aeration tanks may be due to the presence of
 high concentration of oil & grease (140-180 mg/l) in
 primary treated effluent being routed for bio-oxidation.
 To determine the sludge volume index (SVI) and sludge
 setting rate of the sludge from aeration tanks sludge 122 setting studies were carried out in one litre. The SVI and
 sludge setting rate as monitored were as follows:  Bio-logical sludge with SVI value in the range 80-100 ml/g
 has good settle ability. The low SVI value and high settling
 rate indicate presence of chemical sludge and/or
 mineralized sludge in aeration tanks.  HRT, OFR and WL of secondary clarifier including
 performance of the biological treatment with respect to
 SS, COD and BOD removals as monitored were as follows: The solid settling rate in secondary clarifier is maximum
 during the first 2.0-2.5 h of settling and thereafter
 decreases considerably. Hence, longer retention period do
 not provide much advantage, and instead may lead to
 sludge000 bulking.  The dosage of alum and polyelectrolyte for chemical
 precipitation at tertiary stage of treatment was ~300 kg/d
 and ~3 kg/d, respectively.  HRT, OFR, WL and performance of the tertiary treatment
 with respect to SS, COD and BOD removals as monitored
 were as follows:  Performance of the pressure sand filter with respect to SS,
 COD & BOD removal efficiencies based on 12 and 24 h
 monitoring were in the range 5.1-6.8, 9.1-11.1 and 4.9-
 5.8% respectively. Performance of pressure of the media
 to be followed as per instruction laid down in the
 operational manual.  No separate energy meter is provided for effluent
 treatment plant. A separate energy meter exclusively for
 ETP would facilitate monitoring of power consumption by
 the regulatory authorities to ensure continuous operation
 of the ETP." 84. NEERI also suggested mitigation measures for

improved and sustained performance of the ETP at peak flow,

which include mixing facility of adequate capacity must be

provided in collection tank of DCP process effluent for proper

equalisation of the effluent as the manufacturing process are

batch operated, which will ensure flow of equalised effluent

into downstream units facilitating ease of coagulant dosing

and avoiding shock loading, online pH meter must be installed

at the primary, secondary and tertiary stages of treatment to

ensure maintenance of optimum pH for effective chemical

precipitation and bio-oxidation, the dosage of coagulant and

coagulant aid at primary and tertiary stages of treatment

should be optimized based on the concentration of major

pollutants in the feed through regular jar test (treatability

studies) facilitating optimal chemical consumption for

effective chemical precipitation and consequent minimal

chemical sludge generation, the coagulant and coagulant aid

must be properly closed in the flash mixer with rapid mixing

at 100-120 rpm for 1-2 minutes followed by slow mixing at

30 rpm for 15-120 minutes in Flocculator to achieve effective

coagulation/flocculation, regular de-sludging from the primary 125 clarifier must be practised to prevent escape/carry-over of

suspended solids in the clarified effluent, dosing of coagulant

and coagulant aid in feed to secondary clarifier must be

discontinued, as recycle of sludge from clarifier to aeration tank

will result in building of chemical sludge in aeration tanks,

efforts to be made for development of active biomass in

aeration tanks for effective bio-oxidation and achieving

optimum removal of soluble organics, the pH of primary

treated effluent routed to aeration tank must be maintained in

the range 6.8-7.4 and dissolved oxygen must be regularly

monitored and maintained in the range 2.0 - 2.5 mg/l to

ensure optimum environmental conditions for proper growth

of microorganisms for effective bio-oxidation, the bio-

degradable organics to nutrient ratio of 100 : 5.1 must be

maintained in aeration tanks for effective bio-oxidation

through supplement of nutrients, if required, the torque at

shaft of the aerators must be improved through regular

replacement of conveyor V-belts and predictive maintenance

of the assembly to enhance the efficiency of the existing

surface aerators, in case of the compressor, the air discharge

rate must be regulated to achieve improved efficiency, the 126 covered roof in the aeration tank may be partly removed to

allow transfer of atmospheric oxygen into the liquid during

aeration to improve the desired dissolved oxygen concentration

or both the aeration tanks must be provided with diffused

aeration instead of surface aeration, bio-sludge recycle and

wastage from secondary clarifier must be optimally practised

based on design to ensure desired MLSS concentration in

aeration tanks and improve the sludge growth rate, the

combined effluent has high concentration of TKN which

eventually converts to Ammonia-N and the development of

active biomass in aeration tanks will facilitate removal of

ammonia through bio-oxidation, weirs must be refurbished in

primary, secondary and tertiary clarifiers to maintain design

weir loading rate for facilitating uniform outflow velocity to

prevent short circuiting and avoid formation of dead pockets ,

thereby ensuring effective clarification in the industry, sand

media filters must be backwashed at regular intervals as per

the operational manual guidelines to ensure optimum efficiency

of the filtration units. And further, the management must

consider the feasibility for further reducing the effluent

generation through the plant process improvement thereby 127 decreasing the quantity of effluent discharge into the river as

at that time around 45.8% of waste water alone was generated

from process units is recycled/reused within the plant in

various processes, as at that time pH, SS, BOD, COD,

Ammonia Nitrogen, Phosphate and oil and grease are analysed

for the final treated effluent alone , which is finally discharged

into the Chalakkudy river, regular analysis of the major

parameters at various stages of treatment was recommended

to ensure performance check of the various unit processes in

the ETP. Equipping laboratory with proper instrumentation

facilities namely, Jar test apparatus, double beam

spectrophotometer and double distillation unit, TKN digester

with ammonia distillation assembly were suggested.

Maintenance of proper records in the form of printed log books

of quantity of waste water generated, chemical and energy

consumption, laboratory analysis for the ETP performance,

quantity of sludge generated and schedule followed for recycle

of biological sludge were suggested as this will facilitate proper

operation and maintenance of the ETP and to facilitate

monitoring of power consumption by the regulatory authorities 128 providing of separate energy meter was recommended to

ensure that ETP is continuously operated. 85. To assess the impact of the effluent discharged on

the water quality of Chalakkudy river, a sampling programme

was prepared and considered the river flow pattern. River

water was sampled at 10 locations spread over the river stretch

starting from Vynthala pump house - 2.51 km upstream of

water intake Well of the industry to - 17.18 km downstream

of treated effluent discharge location of the industry at

Kanakkankadve barrage. The total river stretch of 20.3 km

was covered to assess the quality of water in the river.

Sampling was carried out at the centre of the river using a

motor boat and also at both the banks at few locations

downstream of the treated effluent discharge location. The

results are given in Table 10.8 and 10.9 of the report. Study

was also conducted on aquatic biodiversity. 86. So also, to assess the impact of the industrial

activity on ground water in the vicinity of the industry,

sampling locations were identified and samples were collected 129 and ground water samples were collected from open dug wells

that are used in residential blocks in the nearby villages

around the industry. Detailed physico-chemical characteristics

including heavy metals of ground water samples collected from

the villages are quantitatively analysed along with the

acceptable limit and permissible limit of Indian Standard

Drinking Water Specification and shown in table 10.16

appended to the report. Water samples were also collected

from the paddy field adjacent to the industrial site at

Perunthode channel, pond opposite to M/s.Kirupa bone

industries and the ponds in low lying area and dumping site

within the industry premises. The detailed physico-chemical

characteristics including heavy metals of the water samples

collected from various locations are furnished in tale 10.18

appended to the report. Based on the study, it was observed

that the characteristics of surface water collected from

Chalakkudy river from 2 km upstream of water intake Well of

the industry to 17.18 km downstream of treated effluent

discharge location do not indicate high concentration of any

major pollutants. The river water quality of the downstream

treated effluent from the industry indicates that no major 130 impact is observed in the characteristics of river water with

respect to major physico-chemical parameters as per Drinking

Water Standards Specification. 87. Shannon-Wiener Diversity Index (SWI) values of the

river water samples based on composition of phytoplankton

found varied from 3.11 to 3.55, which indicate the level of

plankton biodiversity with minimum impact of organic pollution

or adverse factors for plankton growth. The Palmer Pollution

Index (PPI) of 20 or more in a sample which is an indicator of

organic pollution was ruled out as the PPI values as estimated

and as per the samples collected from various locations varied

in the range 4-10 indicating absence of organic pollution

(table 10.10 of the report) SWI values for zooplankton ranging

between 1 and 3 are believed to indicate semi productivity of

a water body while the values above 3 are considered the

minimum impact of pollution or adverse factors as SWI values

varied from 3.01 to 3.65 which indicate good level of plankton

biodiversity with minimum impact of organic pollution or

adverse factors for plankton grown. The characteristics of 131 ground water sampled from dug Wells located in the villages

around the industry do not indicate the presence of any major

pollutants in concentrations exceeding the permissible limit of

Drinking Water Standards. The characteristics of the water

samples collected from various locations identified by the

members associated with the ongoing agitation against the

industry do not indicate the presence of any major pollutant

in concentrations that can attribute to any discharge/disposal

of waste from the industrial activity. The waste generated were

inventorized to find out (Hazardous Waste Management

Handling and Transboundary Movement) Rules. The sinews, a

fibrous tissue binding muscle and bone are generated as

waste during the pre-treatment of crushed bones and are

collected in gunny bags and either converted into a value

added poultry feed product, namely, meat meal or sold as

manure to manufacturers as it is a good source of nutrient

supplement. The fine dust of bones present in crushed bones

separated during pre-treatment of crushed bones, is collected

in gunny bags and either sold as manure or processed into a

value added product called as meat meal, which is a good

nutrient supplement and it is also sold to the poultry feed 132 manufacturers. The effluent generated during the manufacture

of various products is collected in an equalization tank and

treated in a three stage ETP. It was found that the primary

ETP sludge is sun dried and collected in polypropylene bags.

The primary ETP sludge is termed as nutrisoil and sold as soil

nutrient, supplement to the compost/manure manufacturers.

The secondary ETP sludge is subjected to biological treatment

which comprises of aeration tank followed by secondary

clarifier. A part of bio sludge settled in the secondary clarifier

is recycled to the aeration tank to maintain the MLSS

concentration and the excess sludge is subject to de-watering

using filter process. The de-watered sludge is discarded as

secondary ETP sludge. It is collected and stored in

polypropylene bags and used for compost manufacturing and

the remaining product is sold as manure to the manufacturers.

The wood ash used as fuel in the furnace to meet the

requirement of heat energy for drying of Ossein and DCP, is

collected in polypropylene bags and used for composting within

the industry. Spent/used oil generated from various mechanical

equipments is collected in impermeable containers and stored

in a covered shed. E-wastes of various categories generated 133 from electrical/electronic equipments, is periodically sold to

KSPCB authorized agency. On an average four number of filter

cloths are discarded as waste in every two months from the

drum filter and filter press. It is stored and disposed of

periodically. 88. Based on analysis of various solid waste/sludge

generated by the industry, it was observed that the sinews,

bone meal waste, are non hazardous as provided under the

Hazardous Waste (Handling, Management and Tran-boundary

Movement) Rules, 2008. So also, on the primary ETP sludge, it

was observed that "on the process details of generation and

the overall analysis, it may be concluded that the Primary ETP

sludge does not contain any hazardous constituent and

therefore, classified as non hazardous waste as per the

Hazardous Waste (Handling, Management and Tran-boundary

Movement) Rules, 2008". The waste however, has a very high

pH and needs to be managed in an environmentally sound

manner to prevent contamination of land and water resources.

Based on the analysis of the secondary ETP sludge, it was

observed that " on the overall analysis it may be concluded 134 that the secondary ETP sludge does not contain any hazardous

waste as per the Hazardous Waste (Handling, Management and

Tran-boundary Movement) Rules, 2008". The sludge, however,

has high pH value and needs to be managed in an

environmentally sound manner to prevent contamination of

land and water resources. The waste generated by using the

wood as fuel, it was observed that the wood ash generated by

using the wood as fuel, is also non hazardous waste. On the

analysis of the samples collected at dump site adjacent to

ETP , it was observed that "Based on the visual inspection and

the overall analysis it may be concluded that the dump

material does not contain any hazardous constituent and is

therefore, classified as 'non-hazardous waste' as the

Hazardous Waste (Handling, Management and Tran-boundary

Movement) Rules, 2008. The dumped material has a very high

pH value and needs to be managed in an environmentally

sound manner to prevent contamination of land and water

resources. Based on the analysis of the representative

samples collected to check the presence of hazardous

constituent, it was observed that based on the overall

analysis, it may be concluded that the compost does not 135 contain any hazardous constituent. The impact of waste

dumped on open land was also considered by NEERI. It was

reported that the analysis of soil samples collected from dump

site conform various physico-chemical parameters and its

comparison with control soil sample indicates that there is no

significant and adverse change in the characteristics of soil at

the dump. In addition, the characteristics of the soil samples

from the paddy field adjacent to the industry and also from

the excavated land on northern side of the industry , adjacent

to abandoned roof tile industry, do not indicate any major

change in characteristics compared to control sample. Still, as

a mitigating measure, NEERI suggested after observing that

the industry does not generate any hazardous waste from the

process and only hazardous waste generated by the industry is

used/spent oil which is generated from various mechanical

equipments. Considering the high pH value of the some of the

wastes such as primary and secondary ETP sludge as well as

low pH value of wood ash, it was recommended not to dump or

store these wastes directly on land to avoid any possibility of

ground water contamination. 89. On the aspect of air environment, it was reported

that the dust and gaseous pollutants from the industrial unit

are collected, treated wherever required and emitted through

stacks attached to various processes. The concentration of

particulate matter emission from Ossein (162.3 - 175.2

mg/Nm3) furnace hot air generator, as monitored, marginally

exceeded the regulatory limit (150 mg/ Nm3). It was also

observed that as the data was based on short term monitoring,

the high concentration observed may be only due to blowing

operation being carried out in the hot air generator during the

stack monitoring. But the particulate matter control at source

needs attention. The Particulate matter emission from stack

attached to DCP manufacturing unit conformed to the

prescribed limit fixed by KSPCB. It was, however, noted that

emission limits for Sulphur di-oxide and Hydrogen sulphide

from stack have not been stipulated in the Consent Order.

The average concentration of particulate matter (PM10 & PM2.5)

monitored on 24 hourly basis in the ambient air within the

industry premises and in the surrounding areas, were found to

be within the prescribed National Ambient Air Quality

Standards. The Ambient Air Quality in reference to the 137 parameters namely, SO2, NO2, H2S and NH3 are within the

industry premises and surrounding areas were also found

within the norms prescribed by the National Ambient Air

Quality Standards. The concentration of the parameters,

namely, SO2, NO2, NO, NH3 and H2S installed by the

management within the industry continuously displayed

through an electronic display board. An online Ambient Air

Quality monitoring station has been installed by the

management within the industry premises. The odour

concentration as monitored at various locations was reported

as very low. Lower concentrations were observed at location in

the surrounding areas of the industry premises. But it was also

observed that the odour as monitored was found higher during

early morning and evening hours compared to day time and

this can be due to different meteorological conditions that

prevail during those periods of the day. High odour

concentrations were detected at the manufacturing points,

namely, cooking and separation of dry sinews, wet bone meal,

pre-treatment of crushed bone, acidulation of crushed bone

and DCP precipitation and filtration. 90. Based on the findings, NEERI suggested the following

recommendations: Ambient air from these areas may be routed to the
 existing biofilter by providing ducts and blowers to
 mitigate odour emission in these areas. In addition, the following recommendations must be
judiciously implemented in a time bound manner (Table 14.1)
for sustainable environmental management: oxidation on a sustainable basis. 9. Regular backwashing of sand filters must be
 ensured for optimum performance of the sand
 filtration unit, and if necessary the media must be
 replaced with proper media size depending on the
 size of the suspended fraction. 10. The final treated effluent characteristics from
 ETP conform to the limits of all the seven
 stipulated parameters of the KSPCB Consent.
 However, the concentration of the chloride in the
 final treated effluent being discharged is higher
 than that in the receiving water body. The KSPCB
 has given Consent to M/s. NGIL vide letter dated
 20.09.2009 excluding the chloride parameter as
 long as the river water quality meets the Indian
 Standard Drinking Water Specifications (IS 141 10500:2012) at the point of discharge. Considering the concentration of chloride in the
 treated effluent being directly discharged into the
 river, it is recommended that M/s NGIL must
 judiciously monitor fortnightly the chloride and
 TDS parameters in the river water especially
 during lean flow periods. If any time the
 concentration of the referred parameters in the
 river water exceeds the acceptable limits of the
 Indian Standard Drinking Water Specifications, M/s
 NGIL must immediately ensure necessary measure
 to bring down the concentration of the referred
 parameters in the treated effluent being
 discharged by increasing the flow ratio of polishing
 pond effluent to delay pond effluent. 11. M/s NGIL must submit the analyses report on
 river water quality to the KSPCB every fortnight. 12. As being practiced flexible pipe must not be
 used for conveyance of treated/untreated
 wastewater from one unit of the ETP to another,
 and instead should be replaced by rigid pipes. 13. The industry management must also consider
 the feasibility for further reducing the effluent
 generation through in plant process improvement
 there by decreasing the quantity of effluent
 discharge into the river. 14. During river water sapling along the 20.03 km
 stretch of river Chalakudy, weed growth was
 observed along the banks of the river restricting
 the free flow in the river and thereby resulting in
 water stagnation and scum formation on the water 142 surface. M/s NGIL must undertake regular cleaning
 of weeds specially near the treated effluent
 discharge pipeline in the river to ensure free flow
 of water at the banks, and thereby mitigating the
 possibility of anaerobicity at the banks of the river. 15. The present study of greenbelt developed
 within the industry premises covers 22.72% of the
 total area of the industry premises. Besides this,
 an additional 2.42% of the area is also being
 developed as green belt. The industrial area also
 possesses natural vegetation with wild climbers
 and sparse trees of coconut on 8.82% of the total
 area. An additional area of 0.37 ha is
 recommended for further development as green
 belt at locations as presented in Figure 12.1. 16. Efforts must be made to develop greenbelt of
 adequate width and density along the boundary
 wall and within the industry premises depending
 on the availability of space at the recommended
 locations to mitigate the effect of odour emission. 17. New trees belonging to species Casuarina
 equisetifolia have been planted 3-4 months earlier
 on the Eastern side of the crushed bone godown
 and have attained height of 1-2 meter. These
 trees can be replaced by tree species with broad
 leaves as listed in Table 12.2. 18. New green belt of 10 meter width is
 recommended on the North East of industry
 premises (low lying area) and near Smruti Vanam
 as per the development plan presented in section 143 12 .3. The green belt plan is designed considering
the climate conditions and soil type. 19. Aegal marmelos, Terminalia catappa, Tectona
grandis, Azadirachta indica, Artocarpus
heterophyllus and Mangifera indica are the species
growing well in the local environment and also
possesses the large biomass with broader leaf
area. Therefore, these species are recommended
for developing new green belt areas. 20. Utmost care must be ensured to achieve
optimum growth of the trees for an effective
greenbelt development within the industry
premises. 21. The industry should also improve the green
belt cover through plantation of high foliage trees
around the periphery of CB godown and other point
sources of odour emission to act as barrier for
controlling the secondary fugitive emissions in the
areas within the industry. 22. M/s NGIL must ensure judicious
implementation of the recommendation made by
the Technical Expert Committee which is still not
complied within the targeted time frame. 23. An Environmental Management Cell must be
created with either a chemical engineer or an
environmental engineer as In-charge of the cell 144 who will directly report to the Unit Head. This will
 facilitate independent responsibility of the cell for
 effective / efficient and sustainable pollution
 control leading to better environmental
 management of the industrial activities. 24. M/s NGIL must also be committed to go
 beyond compliance through continuous
 improvement in management practices, and
 delineating a road map for progressive renovation
 in environment management system. 91. Pursuant to the report, the Kerala State Pollution

Control Board (KSPCB) accepted the recommendations and

issued the following directions to be complied with by the

industry as per letter dated 24.09.2014. 1. "Cameras are to be provided in the "Effluent Treatment
 Plant area for viewing the effluent treatment plant
 operations from District Office at Thrissur, Regional Office
 at Ernakulam & from the Head Office of Pollution Control
 Board. 2. The odour of treated effluent is to be assessed. 3. Oil and grease trap is to be provided as oil and grease in
 effluent treatment plant is high. 4. Anaerobic disaster is to be installed before aeration tank
 so as to reduce the generation of sludge, to reduce the
 dosing rate of chemicals and to produce energy. 145 5. Treated effluent is to be reused to the maximum extent. 6. The storage area of godown is to be partitioned for
 controlling smell problem. 7. Acidity in fumes is to be ascertained as there is chance of
 microbes in biofilter being affected. 8. Arrangement shall be made to provide a minimum
 required dissolved oxygen content in the aeration tank &
 for the proper functioning of aeration tank. 9. TCLP analysis is to be done for soil and sediment samples. 10. Facility shall be provided to maintain / adjust pH in
 Effluent Treatment Plant units. 11. Periodical maintenance of sand filter is to be
 ensured. 12. Environment Management Cell shall be strengthened by

 posting an Engineer exclusively for the purpose. 13. There shall not be any flexible pipes in the factory. The
 Environmental Engineer, District Office, Thrissur shall
 ensure this." 92. Even earlier, based on the complaint received

against the industry, the Government appointed an eight

member Expert Committee headed by Smt.Dr.B.Lakshmikutty, 146 Head of Department (Chemical Engineering), Government

Engineering College, Thrissur as per G.O.(Rt) No.29/2011/10

dated 27.01.2011. The Expert Committee after inspection and

verification suggested 13 recommendations to be implemented

by the industry. As per the G.O.(Rt) No.1376/2011/10 dated

03.11.2011, the Government accepted the study report and

directed the company to implement the following 13

directions: 93. Thereafter, a meeting was convened by the

Chief Minister of the State on 07.12.2011 wherein the NGIL

Action Council members, officers of the Government

Department, Industry officials, Local body authorities and the

local MLA were present. In that meeting, it was resolved to

strictly implement the said 13 directions of the Expert

Committee as approved by the Government. In addition, the

following 3 recommendations were also included and directed

to be complied by the industry. They are: 94. Pursuant to the directions, the company submitted

an Action Plan before the KSPCB and by order dated

13.10.2011, it was approved by the Board. KSPCB, District

Office, Thrissur had closely monitored the progress in

implementing the Action Plan. According to the Board, the

industry implemented all the recommendations within the

stipulated period as per the Action Plan except the cleaning of

Chalakkudy river, the recommendation no.13. It was

subsequently, the matter came before the Hon'ble High Court

of Kerala in WP(C) No.15795 of 2013 and the Hon'ble High

Court directed the CSIR NEERI to conduct a detailed study

with respect to the environmental pollution status. As per the

order dated 26.11.2014, the Chairman of the KSPCB directed

for a joint Monitoring by NEERI and KSPCB along with the

representatives of Thrissur District Collector, to assess the

implementation status of the recommendations of NEERI

report dated May 2014 and compliance of the directions of

KSPCB dated 24.09.2014. Accordingly, Joint Monitoring

Committee conducted inspection at the industry during the

period January 14-15 , 2015 and based on the findings of the 149 Joint Monitoring Committee, report was prepared by CSIR

NEERI dated 27th February, 2015. 95. The report reveals that performance assessment

of effluent treatment plant (ETP) was carried out through grab

sampling of inflow to ETP and treated effluent after tertiary

treatment (sand filter) including final treated effluent being

discharged into Chalukkudy river. Sample of mature compost

was also collected and analysed for various hazardous

constituents. Surface water quality assessment of Chalakkudy

river was conducted through sampling from 5 locations

starting from 2 km upstream of intake Well of the industry

(Vynthala pump house) to 3 km downstream of treated

effluent discharge point. Treated effluent and Chalakkudy river

water samples were also collected for estimation of volatile

organic compounds (VOCs). Ambient Air sample from

acidulation process unit area was also collected to estimate the

acidity level in ambient air. Performance assessment of the

pilot scale scrubber unit installed was conducted for VOCs

estimation through collection of air samples at the inlet and 150 outlet of the scrubber unit. On the performance assessment of

effluent treatment plant, the report shows the concentration of

major parameter in the final treated effluent being discharged

into Chalakkudy river conform to the discharge Standards

stipulated by the KSPCB . On the surface water quality

assessment of Chalakkudy river, the report shows the

concentration of all the monitored parameters in Chalakkudy

river water samples at various locations conform to the

Acceptable Limits of the Drinking Water Specifications (IS-

10500 2012 Second revision) On the assessment of volatile

organic compounds (VOCs) in water and air samples, it is

reported that the river water samples collected near

Iyathykadavu irrigation pumping house was found to have a

few number of target VOC species in detectable level. The fuel

(diesel) contamination from the pumps installed in the pump

houses located along the banks of the river and motor boats

plying in the river may be contributing to the target species.

The results of the two air samples comprising inlet and outlet

of scrubber were analysed and it is reported that the

performance efficiency based on the single trial run, indicates

more than 99% efficiency in scrubbing of Benzene and 151 complete scrubbing of detected target species. Further, trial

runs are necessary to ascertain effective performance of

scrubber system. On the assessment of acidity in Ambient Air

at acidulation process unit area, it is recorded that the acidity

of the aliquot was estimated to be 4.3 mg/l as CACO3

indicating only insignificant amount /quantities of acidic

gases on the ambient air of the process unit area. The report

shows that the team assessed the status of implementation of

the recommendations and directions during inspection. In

addition, the performance evaluation of the operation of ETP

and assessment of surface water quality , according to them,

based on the performance evaluation of ETP , it is concluded

that the physico-chemical characteristics including heavy

metals concentration in the final treated effluent being

discharged into Chalakkudy river conform to the discharge

Standards stipulated by the KSPCB. Hence, there is no impact

of the discharge from the industry on river water quality. The

overall analysis of mature compost samples indicates that the

compost does not contain any hazardous constituent. The

concentration of the analysed parameters in Chalakkudy river

water samples monitored at various locations conform to the 152 Acceptable limits of the Drinking Water Specifications. The

target species of VOCs were not detectable in ETP effluent

sample being discharged into Chalakkudy river. As the target

VOCs species are below detectable limit in treated effluent

discharged into Chalakkudy river . Hence, there is no impact of

the discharge from the industry on river water quality. The

performance efficiency of the pilot scale scrubber based on the

single trial run indicated more than 99% efficiency in scrubbing

of Benzene and complete scrubbing of the other detected

target species. The estimated acidity in the ambient air at

acidulation process unit area indicate insignificant

amount/quantity of acidic gases in the ambient air around the

process unit area. On the compliance of the recommendations,

it is reported as follows: 96. As directed by the Chairman, KSPCB, to assess the

implementation status of the recommendations given by NEERI

and the compliance of directions of the KSPCB, a joint

monitoring Committee once again inspected the industry on

12th and 13th August, 2015 and the monitoring committee

comprised of two officials from KSPCB, 5 members from

NEERI, Tahsildar, Thrissur and the representatives of the

industry. Based on the findings, the CSIR NEERI prepared a

report of the Joint Monitoring Committee on 10th October,

2015. 97. The report shows that based on the physico chemical

analysis of various samples of ETP, performance of ETP was

found to be satisfactory and the final treated effluent being

discharged into Chalakkudy river conform to the discharge

Standards stipulated by KSPCB. The overall analysis of

mature compost sample indicates that the compost does not

contain any hazardous constituents. The concentration of 154 analysed parameters in Chalakkudy river water samples

monitored at various locations conform to the Acceptable Limits

of the Drinking Water Specifications. The target species of

VOCs were almost not detectable in ETP effluent being

discharged into Chalakkudy river. As the target VOCs species

are below detectable limit in treated effluent discharged into

Chalakkudy river, there is no impact of the discharge from the

industry on river water quality. The VOCs in the ambient air

outside the industry premises indicate insignificant

concentration in the ambient air. On the compliance of the

recommendations and directions, it was reported that the

industry has complied with the implementation of 20

recommendations out of 23 as suggested by NEERI and all the

13 directions issued by KSPCB. The remaining two

recommendations of the NEERI to be complied, are the

implementation of bio-filter for odour control and 2nd

anaerobic reactor for biogas recovery. It is reported that they

are under various stages of implementation. Regarding odour

control, pilot scale trials for wet and dry scrubbing were

conducted and the performance was observed to be ineffective.

Hence, bio-filter option was considered based on the study 155 conducted by CSIR NEERI, Trivandrum. They are entrusted

with the design of bio-filter system and it is in progress. The

second anaerobic reactor being constructed similar to the first

unit, which is performing effectively. It is reported that the

construction is completed and balance work is in progress for

commissioning. Both the works are being taken up in a time

bound manner by the industry to comply within the stipulated

time, i.e December 2015. The remaining direction to be

complied with is regarding the cleaning of weeds along the

banks of the river, for which, the industry waits for an approval

from Kadukutty Panchayat for implementing the same. 98. Another Joint Monitoring Committee consisting of the

same officials again inspected the industry on August 12 and

13, 2015 to assess the implementation status of the

recommendations of the NEERI and the balance directions of

the KSPCB. Based on the findings, the CSIR NEERI prepared a

report dated October 10, 2015. 99. When the applications were listed before the Tribunal

on 11.3.2016, it was reported by the industry that due to some

sabotage outlet pipeline which carries the treated effluents

from the industry to the Chalakkudy river, was damaged,

which are to be rectified, the Tribunal directed the KSPCB to

submit a status report as to when the damage occurred to the

pipeline and the extent of damage and the extent of

rectification done by the industry and the quantum of discharge

of effluent on the land and river. The Board was also directed

to file an analysis report of the effluent including all the

parameters. When the matter was listed on 22.03.2016, it

was reported by the Board that the report of analysis is

awaited. At that time, it was clarified by the Tribunal that the

samples shall be collected from the place of discharge, place of

breakage and the place where the discharge is let out into the

river at the final outlet of the ETP. 100. The KSPCB thereafter, submitted a report dated

16th April 2016. The report shows that during inspection, it was

noticed that the pipeline carrying the treated effluent was in 157 partially broken stage at a particular point. Certain length of

this pipeline is laid along and under the bed of Natural thodu

(canal), through which there is flow of water. The broken part

of the pipeline is at this point. The thodu is in the poramboke

land under the custody of Kadukutty Grama Panchayat. The

broken portion of the pipeline is already under the water and

certain quantity of effluent was discharged through the broken

part into the Thodu and the mixture of effluent and water was

seen flowing into the thodu. It is roughly estimated that 1/3rd

effluent leaked into the thodu through the broken portion of

the pipeline. It is reported that black coloured sludge like

materials could be found to be deposited beside damaged part

of the pipe line. But, during the time of inspection, no sludge

like materials could be found to be discharged into the thodu

along with the effluent. The broken hole of the pipeline is not

visible. It was learnt that the hole is having about 30 cm

diameter. As per the report, the Board got information about

the damage of the pipeline in April 2015. When a complaint

was received alleging the breaking of the pipeline, the Board

issued a notice to the industry to stop the discharge of effluent

through the broken pipeline on 18.04.2016. The industry 158 replied that they had noticed the leak on 08.03.2015 and it was

repaired on 11.03.2015. Though the industry claims that the

leakage had been completely arrested, it was found at the time

of inspection that the leakage still continues. According to the

industry, the local people have blocked the pipeline partially

by putting concrete blocks in the broken portion. The report

also shows that during January, 2016, public had agitated

against the discharge of effluent through the hole of the broken

pipeline into thodu and based on a complaint from the public,

the Board issued direction to the industry on 04.01.2016 to

take necessary action for redressal of the complaint regarding

the discharge of effluent into the thodu due to the leakage of

the pipeline. At the time of inspection, the Board collected

effluent samples from the outlet of the company inside the

factory premises and also from the damaged part of the

pipeline carrying effluent from the industry to the Chalakkudy

river. It is reported that the sample taken from the damaged

portion is a mixture of effluent and water flowing through the

thodu. As the pipeline carrying effluent of the factory is about

2.5 meters below the water level of the river, the officials 159 could not take sample of effluent from that final discharge

point. 101. The report shows that the result of the analysis of

effluent taken from the pipe breakage point is as follows: 102. The parameters of TDS and Chlorides were

omitted from the Schedule IV of General Standards for

discharging environmental Pollutants as per Rule 2(d)(i) of the

Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986 vide Notification No.GSR

801 (E) dated 31.12.1993. It is therefore reported that there

are no standards for parameters of TDS and Cholorides. The

report shows that BOD found on analysis is slightly exceeded

the Standards in the effluent collected from the authorised

outlet of the industry and all other parameters are within the

prescribed standards. The analysis report of the effluent

collected from the broken portion of pipeline showed that the

parameters of Ammonical Nitrogen being 130.2 mg/l, exceeds

the prescribed Standard of 50 mg/l. It is observed that the

industry has to take necessary action to bring all the effluent

parameters in accordance with the prescribed standard as per

the Consent Order. The Board, therefore, issued direction

dated 13.4.2016 to the industry to take urgent action to ensure

that the effluent is discharged only after fully complying with

the effluent standards prescribed in the consent to Operate. 161 103. While these applications were pending, Original

Application No.412 of 2016 (PB) was filed by the NGIL Action

Council on 03.08.2016 to direct the respondent No.5, Central

Pollution Control Board ( CPC B) to study the pollution caused

by the industry to the air, water and land in terms of the

parameters fixed for effluents and to restrain the industry

from discharging effluents and sludge into the Chalakkudy

river. This Tribunal, by order dated 29th September 2016

restrained the industry from discharging untreated effluents

and sludge not meeting to the standards of the Pollution

Control Board into Chalakkudy river till the next date of

hearing i.e. 06.10.2016. Further, the Central Pollution Control

Board, Delhi is directed to file a report including sludge and

AAQ in the industry. 104. Pursuant to the directions, the officials of Central

Pollution Control Board ( CPC B) inspected the industry during

October 3rd - 5th, 2016 and submitted a report dated

07.11.2016 in Application No.412 of 2016. (PB) As the said

report deals with the same industry causing pollution by 162 discharging effluents into Chalakkudy river as in the other

applications, a copy of the report has also been filed in these

applications. 105. As the Hon'ble High Court of Kerala by order dated

07.04.2016 in W.P.(C) No.28913 of 2015 (L) issued

instructions to the NEERI to conduct an inspection on the

premises of the company of the respondent (M/s.NGIL) and

the 1st petitioner in the Writ Petition as well as the Secretary

to the Panchayat shall be permitted to be part of inspection to

be conducted by NEERI and the report is to be filed within six

weeks. Accordingly, NEERI conducted yet another inspection

on May 11th and 12th, 2016. The team consists of Acting

Director, Dr.Tapas Nandy, Principal Scientist, Mr.M.Karthik,

Senior Scientist Mr.P.Manekar, and Dr.R.Biswas, senior

scientist and A.Kuila, Project Assistant for NEERI, for the

pollution Board, the very same earlier officials, i.e.

Environmental Engineer, P.K.Baburajan, Assistant Environment

Engineer, P.B.Sreelakshmy for the company, Executive Director

Corporate Mr.S.Mohan and Unit head, Mr.A.N.Kannan and for 163 the Panchayat, its Secretary, Junior Superintendent, and their

counsel and for the writ petitioner, apart from their counsel

writ petitioners 1 and 2 were present. 106. The inspection was mainly to assess the

implementation of series of recommendations of the NEERI.

As is clear from the report, NEERI team inspected the site

pointed out by the counsel appearing for the writ petitioners,

i.e the land adjacent to the industry site, which was earlier

objected alleging that the industry had disposed sludge and

effluent into its land and collected samples from the said land

also. As it was represented that at the appropriate point of the

pipeline effluent was discharged into the natural drain, the

NEERI team inspected the place and also collected samples

from there also. When the Writ Petitioners' counsel insisted

that the same procedure that was followed by taking samples

for testing under the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act ,

should be followed, NEERI agreed to take independent sample

and also directed the Pollution Control Board to collect their

samples and also permitted the Writ Petitioners to collect the 164 samples. The performance assessment of ETP was carried out

by NEERI team through flow monitoring at inlet to flash mixer,

grab samples of process effluents in flow to ETP and treated

effluent after tertiary treatment (sand filter) including final

treated effluent being discharged. ETP sludge sample was

collected from various places. On site analysis for physico-

chemical parameters was also conducted. In addition, water

and soil/sediment samples were also collected from two

locations identified by the petitioners, as stated earlier,

namely, the paddy field adjacent to the company site and the

drain where the effluent carrying pipeline had earlier broken

and caused leakage. The water quality assessment at

Chalakkudy river was conducted at 5 locations, i.e. 2.00 km

upstream of intake well of the industry, at the point of

discharge of treated effluent of the industry and 500 m,

2.00km and 3.00 km downstream of treated effluent

discharge point of the industry. Samples of treated effluent and

Chalakkudy river were also collected for assessment of VOCs.

The report shows that on the second day when the samples

were collected, attempts were made by some unidentified

persons to block the collection of samples. Still, the NEERI 165 team could successfully collect the samples and send them for

analysis. On the implementation status of NEERI

recommendations, the following are reported.: enclosure with necessary -Equipment have been relocated
 modifications, and provided with and the enclosure has been
 blower and discharge duct provided with a blower and a
 connected to a new scrubber discharge duct connected to a
 system of 12000 m3/h capacity, or new bio-filter.
 treated in a biofilter designed for -The bio-filter has been designed
 an adequate capacity. Enhance by CSIR-NIIST. Design
 the blower capacity by providing completed by 30-08-2015 and
 an additional blower of 30000 the bio-filter was commissioned
 m3/h capacity to achieve improved on December 30, 2015. As
 air circulation. observed the bio-filter was in
 operation during the inspection
 period. 2. The bay on the Eastern side of the A partition wall of 37x5m (ht) has
 CB godown must be isolated / been constructed and work was
 separated by providing a partition completed on 18.10.2014 thereby
 wall to reduce the storage space isolating the bay on the eastern
 of the godown, and restrict storing side of CB godown and reducing
 of CB on the Eastern side of the the CB storage by 357.2 m2.
 godown. 3. Ambient air from acidulation of CB -Ducting from acid bath and DCP
 and DCP precipitation & filtration areas to the existing bio-filter has
 process areas, may be routed to been provided and blower
 the existing biofilter by providing installed on 20.06.2015. Thus the
 ducts and blowers ambient air is being routed to the
 existing bio-filter for control of
 odour in these process areas. -Odour has reduced significantly
 in the process areas as
 compared to first monitoring
 conducted in early 2014. 4. The present practice of spraying SOP has been prepared and
 deodorant in the process unit being practiced accordingly in
 areas where odour emissions are process unit areas.
 higher must be continued to However, with control measures
 control the odour problem in and in place, the frequently of
 around the industry premises. spraying the deodorant in the
 process unit areas has reduced 166 to a great extent. Air emissions control 5. Use of low ash and low sulphur -Low sulphur furnace oil is being
 contents fuel in furnaces and purchased from Bharat
 boilers must be practiced for Petroleum Corporation Ltd. and
 control of PM and SO₂ in use from April 2015 for control
 concentration at sources. of air emissions. monitoring data is based on short on 16.01.2015. This unit was in
 term assessment, feasible operation as observed during the
 corrective measures are needed inspection.
 to ensure emission within the
 norms on a sustainable basis. Optimization of ETP performance 7. The chemical treatment unit Installation of online pH meters (6
 process of ETP comprising Nos.) was completed on
 coagulation-flocculation must be 05.11.2014 in the following units: 8. Regular maintenance of the -The worn out belts of surface
 surface aerators must be ensured aerators have been replaced with
 and in case of the compressor the new belts, and work was
 air discharge rate must be completed by 10.08.2014.
 maintained as per the -The maintenance schedule has
 recommendation of the been revised as per the
 manufacturer. manufacture's manual, and is
 being practiced. 9. The present practice of adding As observed, the practice of
 coagulant / coagulant aid in coagulant / coagulant aid dosing
 biological process for sludge at outlet of aeration tank was
 settleability must be discontinued stopped to improve the growth of
 to improve biomass growth in biomass in aeration tank. This
 aeration tanks. has improved the treated effluent
 quality of the ETP. 10. Regular backwashing of sand -SOP has been prepared for
 filters must be practiced, and if backwashing of sand filter and is
 necessary the media must be being practiced since 167 replaced with proper media size 02.08.2014.
 depending on the size of the -Presently the suspended solids
 suspended fraction. concentration in treated effluent
 from sand filter is within the
 stipulated standards. The
 management must ensure that, if
 necessary the media must be
 replaced with proper media size
 depending on the size of the
 suspended fraction. Reduction in sludge generation 11. Scientifically based treatability of -SOP for optimization of chemical
 process effluents must be adopted dosage has been prepared and
 for chemical treatment for the same is being practiced as
 optimization of chemicals dosage observed.
 to reduce chemical consumption -Chemical dosing tanks with
 and subsequent chemical sludge dosing pumps have been
 generation in ETP. installed and commissioned on
 02.03.2015 for effective
 coagulant dosing and were
 observed to be in operation
 during inspection. Water quality of river water 12. M/s NGIL must judiciously monitor -Monitoring of chloride and TDS
 fortnightly the chloride and TDS parameters in Chalakudy river
 parameters in the river water water being monitored every
 especially during lean flow fortnight. periods. If any time the -The results of the latest sample
 concentration of the referred collected in May 2016 and
 parameters in the river water analysed indicate that the
 exceeds the acceptable limits of concentration of chloride and
 the Indian Standard Drinking TDS parameters does not
 Water Specifications (IS10500: exceed the acceptable limits of
 2012), M/s NGIL must the Indian Standard Drinking
 immediately ensure necessary Water Specifications (IS 10500: 13. M/s NGIL must submit the The latest analysis report of the
 analyses report on river water river water quality was submitted
 quality to the KSPCB every by M/s NGIL to KSPCB on
 fortnight. 04.05.2016, and same was
 confirmed by Shri. P.K.
 Baburajan, Environmental
 Engineer. 14. M/s NGIL must undertake regular -As per management of M/s
 cleaning of weeds along the NGIL request letter has been
 banks of the river specially near submitted to Irrigation
 the treated effluent discharge Department on 30.08.2014 for
 pipeline to ensure free flow of granting permission to undertake
 water at the banks, and thereby cleaning of weeds along the 168 mitigating the possibility of banks of the river. anaerobicity at the banks of the -Irrigation Department has
 river. directed M/s NGIL to initiate
 action through Kadukutty
 Panchayath. -Letter from M/s NGIL was
 submitted to Gram Panchayath
 on 06.08.15 requesting to grant
 permission for cleaning of weeds. - However, formal grant of
 permission is to be issued by
 Kadukutty Gram Panchayath to
 M/s NGIL. 15. The flexible pipe is use for All existing flexible pipes in the
 conveyance of treated / Untreated ETP area have been replaced
 wastewater from one unit of the with rigid pipes.
 ETP to another, must be replaced
 by rigid pipes. In plant control
measure 16. M/s NGIL must consider the In plant control measure through
 feasibility of further reducing the reuse of seal water in paddle
 effluent generation through in washer implemented as
 plant process improvements there observed during the inspection
 by decreasing the quantity of thereby reducing the effluent
 effluent discharge into the river. generation and reusing ~50 m3
 water per day within the plant. of odour emission to act as barrier attained a height of about 10m on
 for controlling the secondary the inspection day.
 fugitive emissions in the areas
 within the industry. 20. Aegel marmelos, Terminalia The tree species as
 catappa, Tectona grandis, recommended have been planted
 Azadirachta indica, Artocarpus near Smrithivan as per
 heterophyllus and Mangifera availability. As observed during
 indica are the species growing inspection the plants are growing
 well in the local environment and well, and have gained a height of
 also possesses the large biomass ~7m. with broader leaf area. Therefore,
 these species are recommended
 for developing new green belt
 areas. 107. On the implementation of the recommendations of

KSPCB, the report is as follows: the effluent treatment plant area The system is in operation from March
 for viewing the effluent30,2015. treatment plant operators from - Five cameras have been installed
 District office at Thrissur, two each at chemical treatment units
 Regional office at Ernakulum & and aeration tanks, and one at sludge
 from Head office of PCB filtration unit. - Internet connection established. 2. The odour of treated effluent is -M/s NGIL has analysed effluent
 to be assessed. samples for volatile organic
 compounds (VOCs) through an NABL
 accredited laboratory and analysis
 report submitted to KSPCB vide letter
 (NO. PCB/OD/87) dated 30.10.2014. - However NEERI also collected
 effluent and river water samples for
 assessment of VOCs during the joint
 monitoring. - The details are reported under section 5 .0 of this report. 3. Oil and Grease trap is to be -Oil & Grease trap installed on
 provided as oil and grease in 25.04.2015 and is in operation.
 effluent treatment plant is high 4. Anaerobic digester is to be -A second anaerobic reactor for
 installed before aeration tank so recovery of biogas is under
 as to reduce the generation of implementation. This will facilitate use
 sludge, to reduce the dosing rate of biogas reducing the fuel oil 171 of chemicals and to produce consumption and also reduce the load
 energy. on aerobic process resulting in energy
 conservation. - The unit is schedules to be
 commissioned by December 2015. 5. Treated effluent is to be reduced Seal water recovery and reuse
 to the maximum extent. implemented resulting in reusing 50
 m3 of water per day. 6. The storage area of godown is to A partition wall of 37x5m (ht) has
 be partitioned for controlling been constructed and work completed
 smell problem. on 18.10.2014 thereby isolating the
 bay on the eastern side of CB godown
 and reducing the CB storage by 357.2
 m2. 7. Acidity in fumes is to be Estimation of acidity in ambient air at
 ascertained as there is chance of acidulation process unit area was
 microbes in biofilter being carried out by NEERI on 15.01.15. The
 affected. acidity in ambient air sample was
 estimated at 4.3 mg/L as CaCO₃
 ( Section 6 .0) of the NEERI report
 dated February 27, 2015. 8. Arrangement shall be made to -The worn out belts of surface
 provide minimum required aerators have been replaced with new
 dissolved oxygen content in the belts. aeration tank & the proper -The maintenance schedule has been
 functioning of aeration tank revised as per the manufacture's
 manual and being practiced. 9. TCPL analysis to be done for soil M/s NGIL has conducted TCPL analysis
 and sediments. for soil and sediment samples through
 a NABL accredited laboratory and
 report submitted to KSPCB. 10. Facility shall be provided to On line pH meters (6 Nos.) have been
 maintain/ adjust pH in effluent installed by 05.11.2014 in the
 treatment plant units. following units: 11. Periodic maintenance of sand -SOP prepared for backwashing of
 filters is to be ensured sand filter and being practiced since
 02.08.2014. As per management of M/s NGIL
 assessment study for media
 replacement to ensure proper media
 size will be taken up as and when
 required since presently the
 suspended solids concentration in
 treated effluent from sand filter is the 172 within the stipulated standards. 12. Environment management cell Chemical engineer (Mr. A. R. Nithin)
 shall be strengthened by posting has been designated In-charge of
 an engineer exclusively for the Environmental Management Cell from
 purpose. 30.06.2014 and is reporting to Unit
 Head. 13. There shall not be any flexible All existing flexible pipes in the ETP
 pipes in the factory. The area have been replaced by rigid
 environmental engineer, District pipes.
 office, Thrissur shall ensure this. 108. On the Performance Assessment of ETP the

following is reported: The samples were analysed for major parameters as per
 Standard Method (APHA, 2005. Standards Methods for
 the Examination of Water and Wasterwater, 21st Ed.
 American Public Health Association, Washington, DC,
 USA). The physic-chemical characteristics in terms of
 major relevant parameters along with the heavy metals
 of the various samples collected including the discharge
 Standards stipulated by the KSPCB are presented in
 Table 5. The concentrations of the major parameters in
 the final treated effluent from ETP conform to the
 discharge standards stipulated by the KSPCB for M/s
 NGIL. The analysis data for the constituents estimated in ETP
 sludge is presented in Table 6. Based on the process
 details of generation and the overall analysis it may be
 concluded that the ETP sludge does not contain any
 hazardous constituted and is therefore classified as 173 "non-hazardous waste" as per the Hazardous Waste
 (Handling, Management and Tran boundary Movement)
 Rules, 2005. The sludge, however, has high pH value
 and needs to be managed in an environmentally sound
 manner to prevent contamination of land and water
 resources." 109. On the water quality Assessment of Chalakkudy river,

the report reads: The concentration of all the monitored parameters in
 Chalakudy river water samples at various locations
 conform to the Acceptable Limits of the Drinking Water
 Specification (IS 10500:2012 Second revision)."

 Table 5: Physicochemical characteristics of effluents from ETP#
 (Monitoring: May 12, 2016)

 KSPCB
 Process effluent from Final Stipulate
Sr
 Method Sand treated d
 . All parameters are expressed in mg/l except pH and temperature.
DCP-DI-Calcium phosphate; BDL - Below detectable limit; NM- Not Monitored. Grab Sample: BDL-Below Detection Limit
Method detection limit (mg/kg): Arsenic - 0.007; Calcium - 0.0006; Total Chromium - 0.01;
Mercury - 0.09; Nickel - 0.005. Table 7: Physico-chemical characteristics of water samples from
river Chalakkudy * (Monitoring: May 12,2016.)
 3.0 km
 500 m d/s of
 2.0 km
 d/s of treated Drinking water
 2.0 d/s of
 treated effluent Standards$
 k/m At treated
 effluent dischar
 u/s of treated effluent
 dischar ge
 intake effluent dischar
 Sr Method ge locatio
 well of dischar ge
 . Paramet detecti location n of
 M/s ge locatio
 N ers on of M/s M/s
 NGIL locatio n of
 o Limit NGIL NGIL
 (Vynth n of M/s Permissi
 (Iyathu (Mambr Accepta
 ala M/s NGIL ble
 ka davu a ble Limit
 pump NGIL (Pullk limit @
 irrigatio irrigati
 house) kadavu
 n pump on
 bridge)
 house) pump
 house)
 1 pH 0.02 7.8 7.7 7.5 7.3 7.5 6.5-8.5 NR 2 Alkalinity 0.2 9.0 10.2 10.5 9.7 11.0 200 600 3 SS 5 6 6 8 6 4 - - 4 TDS 5 44 45 57 110 105 500 2000
 5 COD 2 22 14 16 16 20 - - 6 BOD
 2 <5 <5 <5 <5 7 - - (3d;27˚C)
 7 DO 0.1 7.0 6.9 7.0 6.5 6.4 - - 8 Sulfate as 0.05 0.6 0.7 0.5 0.7 0.8 200 400 SO₄
 9 Chloride
 5 12 15 23 54 58 250 1000
 as CL
 10 Phosphate
 0.01 0.8 0.6 0.6 1.2 1.3 - - -P
 11 Ammonia 0.5 21 14.7 12 15 12 - - -N
 12 Nitrate as
 0.05 1.6 1.2 1.3 1.6 0.9 45 NR
 N
 13 TKN as N 0.5 35 42 46 49 48 - - 14 Calcium 0.2 2.6 2.7 3.6 6.3 8.4 75 200
 15 Magnesiu
 0.2 2.2 1.9 2.4 5.6 6.1 30 100
 m
 16 Total
 hardness* 0.2 15 13 17 25 26 200 600
 *

 17 Sodium 0.1 9 11 19 43 63 - - 18 Potassium 0.1 0.3 0.5 2.1 4.3 5.6 - - 19 Aluminiu
 0.009 BDL BDL BDL BDL BDL 0.03 0.2
 m
 20 Copper 0.0004 0.02 0.02 0.01 BDL 0.01 0.050 1.5
 21 Cadmium 0.0006 BDL BDL BDL BDL BDL 0.003 NR
 22 Chromium 0.01 BDL BDL BDL BDL BDL 0.05 NR
 23 Iron 0.001 0.32 0.66 0.45 0.41 0.55 0.3 0.1
 24 Lead 0.009 BDL BDL BDL BDL BDL 0.01 NR
 25 Manganes
 0.002 0.16 0.09 0.06 0.09 0.05 0.1 0.3
 e
 26 Mercury 0.09 BDL BDL BDL BDL BDL 0.001 NR
 27 Nickel 0.005 BDL BDL BDL BDL BDL 0.02 NR
 28 Zinc 0.001 BDL BDL BDL BDL BDL 5 15
Grab Sample: All parameters are expressed in mg/l except Ph; Expressed as CaCO₃ .
BDL - Below detectable limit; NR- No Relation. $ - Indian Standard Drinking Water-Specification;
[IS 10500;2012] (Second Revision); @ - Permissible limit in the absence of alternate source. 110. On the characteristics of water and soil samples

from various sites as identified by the Writ Petitioners, it is

reported as follows: Table 8: Physicochemical Characteristics of water samples# from various
 sites as identified by Petitioners
 (Sampling: May 12, 2016)

 Water Samples From
 Natural drain near the
 Method paddy field where the
 Sr. Paddy field adjacent
 Parameters detection pipe carrying treated
 No to compound wall of
 limit effluent of NGIL to
 M/s NGIL
 Chalakudy River is
 damaged
 1 pH 0.02 6.2 6.5
 2 Alkalinity** 0.2 1.6 2.2 3 SS 5 150 76 4 TDS 5 564 455 5 COD 2 36 15 6 BOD 2 18 9 7 Dissolved Oxygen 0.1 0.5 0.3 8 Sulfate as S 0.05 175 160 9 Chlorides as Cl 5 120 86 10 Ammonia as N 0.5 2 1.3 11 TKN as N 0.5 12 15 12 Phosphate as P 0.01 0.5 0.1
 13 Cyanide as CN 0.01 BDL BDL
 14 Oil & Grease 2 BDL BDL
 Heavy Metals
 15 Aluminum 0.009 0.52 0.12
 16 Copper 0.0004 0.007 0.004
 17 Cadmium 0.0006 0.002 0.001
 18 Total Chromium 0.01 BDL BDL
 19 Iron 0.001 5.88 2.45
 20 Lead 0.009 0.01
 21 Manganese 0.002 0.75 0.56
 22 Mercury 0.09 BDL BDL
 23 Nickel 0.005 BDL BDL
 24 Zinc 0.001 0.045 0.017
Grab Sample: All parameters are expressed in mg/l except Ph; Expressed as CaCO₃ .
BDL - Below detectable limit; Table 9: Physicochemical Characteristics of soil and sediments samples#
 from various sites as identified by Petitioners
 (Sampling: May 12, 2016

 Sr. Parameters M/s NGIL Paddy filed Natural drain
 No Campus garden adjacent to near the paddy
 (Control) compound wall of field where the
 M/s NGIL pipe carrying
 treated effluent
 of NGIL to
 Chalakudy River
 is damaged
 Proximate analysis of samples
 1 pH 9.2 6.2 5.5
 2 Moisture content (%) 22.5 1.6 2.2 3 Volatile matter (%dry weight) 25.3 150 76 4 Fixed Carbon (%dry weight) 7.8 564 455 5 Ash Content (%dry weight) 89.7 36 15 178 CHNS analysis (% magnitude)
 6 Carbon (C) 20.2 30.6 26.8
 7 Hydrogen (H) 1.2 0.6 0.8
 8 Nitrogen (N) 2.5 2.7 3.7
 10 Sulfur (S) 15.6 12.6 16.7
 Heavy metal (mg/Kg)
 15 Arsenic 0.06 0.06 0.05
 16 Copper 0.009 0.007 0.004
 17 Cadmium 1.9 2.5 1.6
 18 Total Cadmium 12.6 12.8 11.2
 19 Iron 52.7 56.6 47.8
 20 Lead 20.5 16.6 18.7
 21 Manganese 2.54 1.25 1.56
 22 Mercury BDL BDL BDL
 23 Nickel 0.1 0.2 0.1
 24 Zinc 0.89 0.75 0.57
Grab Sample: BDL-Below Detection Limits. Method detection Limit for Mercury: 0.09 mg/kg 111. Based on these findings, the following conclusions

and monitoring are reported:- 112. Thus the NEERI report with regard to the

implementation of the recommendations of NEERI and the

directions of the KSPCB, establish that the industry has already

implemented all the recommendations except the cleaning of

weeds along the banks of the Challakudy river. It is thus clear

that the industry has performed their part even with regard to

the implementation of the recommendation, which remains to

be fully implemented, by submitting a letter dated 06.08.2015

to the Kadukutty Grama Panchayat for permission to undertake

cleaning of weeds along the banks of the river. The new bio-

filter installed and commissioned was found working efficiently.

The final treated effluent being discharged into Chalakkudy

river was found conforming to the discharge Standards

stipulated by the KSPCB and also the general Standards for

discharge fixed by CPC B. The second anaerobic digester is

found to be treating 930 m3 per day which has facilitated

additional usage of biogas in the boiler, thereby reducing the

fuel oil consumption to the tune of 1450 litres per day. The

analysis of ETP sludge sample establish that does not have any 181 hazardous constituent. However, the petitioners and others

are still not satisfied with the measurements taken by the

industry. 113. The applicants in the Original Applications had

sought for an inspection by CPC B. While so, Original Application

412 of 2016 (PB) was filed which was heard separately. In

that application, the Tribunal by order dated 29th September

2016, directed the CPC B to file an interim report as well as a

detailed report including the management of sludge and AAQ in

the industry forthwith. Pursuant to the said direction, the CPC B

inspected the premises and studied the various processes of

the industry and collected samples at different points of ETP,

outlet after delay pond and at final disposal point in the

industry premises. Based on the analysis of samples, the CPC B

has drawn the following conclusions: 114. To assess the status of river water quality, the

water samples and sediments were collected at three points,

i.e. upstream of discharge point, confluence/discharge point

and downstream of discharge point. The sediment samples

were collected using bottom sampler and depth sampler to

water collection at the depth of 5 m from surface water. The

result of analysis of river water and sediment are as follows: Table 6 : Analysis results of river sediment
 S.No Parameter Sediment Sediment Sediment
 from from from
 upstream of confluence downstream
 discharge point of
 point discharge
 point
 1 Arsenic mg/L BDL BDL BDL
 2 Copper mg/L 0.12 0.08 BDL
 3 Cadmium mg/L BDL BDL BDL
 4 Total Chromium 0.42 0.46 0.08
 mg/L
 5 Iron, mg/L 281 286 4.65
 6 Manganese, mg/L 2.53 1.99 0.50
 7 Nickel, mg/L 0.21 0.13 0.04
 8 Lead, mg/L BDL BDL BDL
 9 Zinc, mg/L 0.42 0.23 0.33
 10 Cobalt, mg/L 0.11 0.05 BDL
 11 Mercury, mg/L The analysis is under progress. 115. From the finding of the result of the analysis, it is

inferred that the river water quality at all points is meeting

Indian Standard Drinking Water Standards except for iron that 184 indicates the water is not suitable for drinking purpose without

any treatment. The results were compared with drinking

water standards, since it is a major source of drinking water

for all domestic purposes to the large population in the

Kathikudam Panchayat. Industry has raised serious objection

to this. As rightly pointed out by the learned senior counsel

appearing for the industry, the objection with regard to the

parameters of the river samples is based on the presence of

iron. The analysis of the river water samples show that at

the upstream of discharge point, the iron was 0.55 mg/l, at

the confluence point, it was 0.44 mg/l and at the downstream

of discharge point, it was 0.37 mg/l. The drinking water

standard parameter of iron under the Drinking Water Standard

is 0.3 mg/l. Therefore, it is seen that at the effluent point and

downstream discharge point, it exceeds the standard

parameter i.e 0.3 mg/l. But at the same time, even the

parameter found at the upstream of discharge point is 0.55. If

that be so, when the parameter at the downstream of

discharge point and the effluent point, the iron is in excess of

the parameter found in the upstream, it makes absolutely 185 clear that the industry is not either responsible or contributed

for the excess iron content in the river water. 116. Similarly, the results of analysis of river sediment

as given in the report, show that heavy metal concentration is

meagre except for the iron concentration. The iron

concentration in the river sediment from upstream of

discharge point is 281 mg/l, sediment from confluence point is

286 while at the downstream of discharge point is 4.65 mg/l.

Even though river water and sediment analysis show that the

iron is in excess, based on that fact alone, it cannot be found

that it is due to the effluent being discharged by the industry.

It is more so, when the analysis of the waste water samples

collected from ETP and final outlet shows that the parameter

of iron found at the inorganic stream was 0.44 mg/l, and at

the organic stream was 2.52 mg/l. The parameter found at the

outlet of tertiary clarifier was 0.33 mg/l. At the same time, the

parameter found at the outlet of delay pond was 0.5 mg/l and

at the final disposal point it was 0.64 mg/l. 186 117. On the compliance of source emissions, the unit is

having 11 stacks attached to 3 boilers, bag filters attached to

DCP plant and DG sets. Source emission monitoring was

carried out at five stacks attached to different processes to

access the efficiency of Air Pollution Control Devices installed.

The source emission monitoring result shows the parameters

for particulate matter at the firewood boiler was 105

mg//Nm3, at the biogas & LSHS DCP drier-2 was 128

mg/Nm3,, at biogas fired DCP-I was 93.8 mg/Nm3, , at bag

filter drier 1 was 34.3 mg/Nm3, , at bag filter drier II was 424

mg/Nm3.. The standard fixed by KSPCB is 150 mg/Nm3.

Sulphur Dioxide found at biogas & LSHS DC Drier -2 was 160

mg/Nm3, at biogas fired DCP1 was 113 mg/Nm3, while it was

not found at the biogas filter drier 1 and drier II. The

conclusion is that the unit is meeting emission standards with

respect of firewood boiler and bag filter -1 and the particulate

matter concentration is exceeding 2.8 times than the

stipulated standard at bag filter 2. It indicates that the bag

filters installed are inadequate to control particulate matter

emissions to meet the norms. 118. To meet the odour management, the unit has

taken the following measures: This indicates that the bio-filters are working satisfactorily. 119. On the hazardous waste management, it is reported

that the unit has provided hazardous waste storage yard

having concrete flooring and stored in designated storage

yard and disposed of as per the authorisation conditions. 120. On the Ambient Air Quality monitoring, it is inferred

that the parameters PM10, SO2, and No2 are meeting with 24

hourly National Ambient Air Quality Standards. 188 121. ETP Sludge Management: The report shows that the

average quantity of sludge generated per day is 15 to 18

tonnes/day. The unit is found stored with huge quantity of

sludge in bio-compost yard and left unutilized in a shed

covered on three sides by tarpaulin. It is found that due to non

issuance of licence from local Panchayat, the bio-compost

process was stopped its operation since two years and the

unit was disposing the sludge as nutrisoil at Kaliyapuram

village, Palakkad District which is located at a distance of

about 98 kms upto March 2016. The CPC B team inspected the

dumpsite at Kaliyapuram and found that huge quantity of

sludge was dumped in open area and left unutilized. The

samples from sludge dumpsite and at sludge storage yard of

the industry were collected to check for any heavy metal

contamination. The results of the analysis of the sludge from

the sludge dumpsite and sludge drier are as follows: mg/L

7 Nickel, mg/L 0.10 0.15 0.11 50.00

8 Lead, mg/L BDL BDL BDL 100.00

9 Zinc, mg/L 0.50 0.25 0.79 1000.00

10 Cobalt, mg/L BDL 0.07 BDL - 11 Mercury, The analysis is under progress. mg/L

BDL: Below Detection Limit. 122. In conclusion, it is reported that the concentration

of heavy metals is within the standards of organic fertilizer.

The unutilized sludge accumulated over a period of time in the

Kaliyapuram area is severely affected by rains and the analysis

of sludge, confirms the same, which is highly dangerous to 190 surrounding environment. The sludge generated by the unit

was earlier used as bio-compost for agricultural purpose. The

analysis results are compared with the Standards in the

Fertilizer (Control) Order, 1985 notified by Government of

India, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural

Development,(Department of Agriculture & Co-operation) New

Delhi dated 25.09.1985. The process of analysis of mercury

was not completed when the report was filed. After filing of

the report, the report of the mercury analysis was submitted

by the CPC B, which shows that the mercury contents of the

sludge from dumpsite (Kaliyapuram) is 0.025mg/kg, river

sediments at upstream point is 0.025 mg/kg, at confluence

point is 0.04 mg/kg, at downstream point it was 0.24mg/kg

respectively, while it was 0.148 mg/kg at the sludge from

sludge drier, 0.08 mg/kg at the bio-compost yard and the

mercury content of organic Fertilizer (Control) Order, 1985 is

0.15 mg/kg. Based on this analysis, the CPC B concluded that

the concentration of mercury in all the samples is well within

the standards prescribed in the Specifications of Organic

Fertilizer except at downstream sediment. The sludge

generated by the industry was earlier used as bio-compost for 191 agricultural purpose. As the analysis results are compared with

the standards in the Fertilizer (Control) Order 1985, the

following suggestions were made: 123. It is the specific case of the industry that they are

not using any HCl containing mercury. According to the

industry, they are purchasing the HCl from M/s. Travancore

Cochin Chemicals Ltd (TCC) Kochi and M/s. Chemplast Sanmar

Limited. Therefore, there is no possibility of any mercury

concentration in the sludge. There is no material to show that

the HCl alone purchased by the Industry is containing mercury.

Moreover from the report of the analysis of mercury as stated

in the report of CPC B, it is clear that the excess of mercury

found in the discharge point of the industry cannot be 192 attributed to the industry. The report also shows that the

quality analysis tests for mercury are done by the industry for

HCl in their quality control laboratory. The HCl analysis record

for the period from 21.09.2016 to 04.10.2016 indicates that

concentration of mercury is nil. It is evidently clear from the

CPC B report that the industry shall compulsorily carry out third

party analysis through NABL accredited laboratory for

determination of presence of mercury in HCl before using in the

process. 124. As per the Consent, the industry is permitted to

draw 3000 m3 per day of water from river Chalakkudy. The

industry has installed flow meters to measure the quantity of

water intake from the river. The records are maintained in log

book and same was cross verified. During inspection, the rate

of water consumption was in the range of 2933-2974 m3/day.

There is no separate flow meters installed to quantify the water

consumption for processing and domestic purpose. As per

the condition of the Consent order, the industry is permitted to

discharge treated effluent about 3000 m3/day .To quantify the

effluent discharge per day at the final disposal point, no 193 separate flow meter was installed. During inspection the CPC B

found that the treated effluent is diluted with backwash water

of sand filter before discharging into the river. MLSS

concentration found in the aeration tank was 736 mg/l.

According to CPC B, it indicates the re-circulation of sludge from

secondary clarifier to aeration tank is not proper. The

concentration of Ammonical Nitrogen at the final outlet was

52.9 mg/l slightly higher than the standard fixed by KSPCB (50

mg/l). It was also found that the dilution of TDS, COD and

Chlorides concentration from 4014 mg/l to 2944 mg/l, 331mg/l

to 47 mg/l, and 2323 mg/l to 1663 mg/l respectively due to

the dilution of the treated effluent from delay pond with

backwash water of sand filters before discharging into the

river. So also, the concentration of TDS and Chlorides at final

outlet is 2944 mg/l and 1663 mg/l which are very high when

compared to drinking water standard limit. It is also found that

there is no mechanism installed to detect leakage/breakage in

the conduit carrying treated effluent to a distance of 900

meters and that too, it passes through the irrigated land and

canal and final outlet is submerged 5 meter below in the river.

It was also reported that as the industry has stored huge 194 quantity of sludge in bio-compost yard and left unutilized in a

shed covered in three sides with tarpaulin , it may be lead to

fugitive emission. And the bio-compost process was stopped

since from two years due to non issuance of licence from local

Panchayat. 125. Based on these findings the CPC B provided the

following suggestions to the industry: x. The facilities shall be provided at the outfall
point as per norms for inspection and as well as
for sample collection; xi. To adopt appropriate technologies to recycle
the treated effluent at the maximum extent and
to minimize the discharge of effluent into the
river; xii. To construct sewage treatment plant to
treat the domestic sewage generated within the
premises and to use the treated water for green
belt development; xiii. To ensure the bio-gas generated from
anaerobic digester is utilized completely as fuel
and maintain records on daily basis; xiv. To ensure the continuous operation &
maintenance (i.e.24 X 7) of bio filters in order
to avoid odour nuisance in unit premises; xv. To refurbish the s tack as per Emission
Regulation Part III published by CPC B with 196 respect to safe guards, portholes & sampling
 platform; xvi. To phase out the usage of firewood in the
 boilers and alternative fuel shall be used;

 xvii. To augment the existing bag filters
 adequately to meet the prescribed standards;

 xviii. To operate the continuous ambient air
 quality monitoring station as per norms at
 appropriate location which is fee from
 obstructions; xix. To conduct ambient air quality monitoring
 routinely at the boundary of premises to cover
 all directions in addition to existing CAAQM
 station; and

 xx. To take necessary steps for removal and
 safe disposal of unutilized sludge dumped at
 Kaliyapuram at the earliest possible time. 126. In addition, the KSPCB was directed to (1) amend

the consent condition for installation of electromagnetic flow

meters at ETP inlet & outlet;(2) to meet the standards for TDS

and Chlorides in consent condition in tune with drinking water

standards as the treated effluent is discharged into the river;(3)

to instruct that no solid waste are to be stored and

accumulated anywhere unscientifically in the unit, even though

the ETP sludge is declared as non-hazardous. Similarly, the 197 sludge shall not be used for irrigation purpose in food crops as

per the directions of the Ministry of Environment and Forests

and Climate Change. The MoEF & CC directed the industry that

though the ETP sludge of the industry is found to be non-

hazardous, the sludge shall not be used for irrigation purpose in

food crops, to amend the consent condition for disposal of

sludge to TSDF site. As the sludge generated from the industry

was sent to the river, the standards for TDS and Chlorides

shall be included in the Consent condition and to conduct

sludge analysis as per Schedule II of Hazardous Waste

Management Rules, 2016 for ETP sludge generated from the

industry and based on the results of analysis, to amend the

conditions for sludge management in the Consent Order. The

arguments of the learned senior counsel for the applicants is

that in the absence of proper compliance, it cannot be found

that there was no disposal of the untreated effluent into

Chalakkudy river. 127. The main crux of the arguments of the learned

senior counsel appearing for the applicants is that there has 198 been no material balance or water balance as undertaken by

the industry and without proper balancing of the materials used

and the effluent generated, it is not possible to properly find

out the pollution being caused by the industry. The argument is

that the total raw materials consumed by the industry is

115.048 TPD, which includes 74 TPD of crushed bone, 81.4

TPD of HCl (since 68% is water content in HCl, the actual

quantity of HCl is 26.048 TPD) and 15 TPD of hydrated lime.

The permitted quantum of the product is 62.1 TPD consisting

of 13.3 TPD of Ossien, 8.3 TPD of limed Ossein, 40.5 TPD of

Di-calcium Phosphate and therefore, the balance out of the

raw materials used deducting the permitted quantum of

products, namely, 52.948 TPD should be the process waste

generated by the industry and annually, the total generated

waste would be 19326.02 tonnes. It is pointed out that

according to the form submitted by the industry, for getting

approval for organic fertilizer sold by it, the total annual

production capacity per day is 7 MT and per annum is 2600

MT. It is pointed out that as per the verification form of the

PCB dated 23.06.2012, the industry is permitted to generate a

total of 18,000 MT of ETP waste, of which 2/3rd is converted as 199 nutri soil and 1/3rd is sold to outside parties as semi solid

sludge, for which two numbers of biogas plants are installed.

So, it is argued that 12000 MT is cleared to be sold as

'nutrisoil' and 12,000 MT is to be used in the biogas plants. It is

therefore argued that there is a gap of 1326.02 TPA between

the waste generated by the industry and the waste permitted

to generate from the ETP. Though the case of the industry is

that the sludge generated from the industry is sold as compost

and even if it is assumed that 12000 TPA of sludge is converted

and sold as fertilizer, there is no accounting for 7326.02

(19326.02 - 12000) TPA of solid waste. It is also found out

that as per the details furnished in the report of NEERI dated

May 2014, regarding the raw material consumption and

product details, the total raw material consumed during 2008-

2009 is 48314.12 TPA including crushed bone 32134 TPA , HCl

31841 TPA and hydrated lime 5991 TPA and the total waste

generated is 25205.12 TPA. The total waste that can be

accounted for is only 18,000 TPA of ETP sludge, out of which

only 12000 TPA can be converted into fertiliser and therefore,

deducting the maximum fertilizer that can be produced, namely

12,000 TPA, the waste unaccounted is 13205.12 TPA. It is also 200 pointed out that similar data furnished for the year 2009-2010

shows that the total raw material consumed is 44,904.36 TPA

and the total production including Ossein 3159 TPA, Limed

Ossein 3194 TPA and DCP 14862 TPA and deducting it from

the total raw materials consumed, the total waste generated

would be 23,689.36 as 12,000 TPA is the maximum fertilizer

that can be produced, according to the applicants, the

unaccounted waste is 11,689.36 TPA (23689.36 - 12,000 ) It

is also pointed that that for the year 2010-2011, the waste

unaccounted is 11,097.44 TPA and for the year 2011-2012 it

would be 8975.96 TPA and for the year 2012-2013, the total

raw materials consumed was 44904.36 TPA and the total

production was 21979 TPA and therefore, the balance of

22925.36 should be the total waste generated and deducting

the maximum fertiliser that can be produced i.e. 12000 TPA,

the waste unaccounted for was 10925.36 TPA. It is argued that

there is no accounting for the actual waste generated from the

process and how many tonnes of fertilizer has been sold

during these years have not been disclosed to find out the

exact quantity of unaccounted waste generated. 201 128. Learned counsel pointed out that as per the reply of

KSPCB furnished on an application under RTI Act , the total

sludge generated is 750 tonnes per annum. But the report of

CPC B shows the sludge generated from the ETP is only 15 to

18 TPD and this translates to 5475 to 6570 TPA and, if this is

the quantum of sludge generated from the ETP, there is a great

variance in the material balance and there should be a proper

balancing of the raw materials and the waste generated.

Learned counsel argued that the unaccounted waste, in fact, is

illegal discharge into the Chalakkudy river without permission

and thus the river water is polluted. 129. The industry denied this allegation. Learned Senior

Counsel pointed out that the industry maintained a strict

material balance. The argument is that the gross material

consumption is 170.5 TPD consisting of 74 TPD of crushed

bone, 15 TPD of lime and 81.4 TPD of Hydrochloric Acid. Out of

these, the HCl concentration used is 30% and 70% is water

and therefore, the net quantity of HCl is only 24.4 TPD and

thus, the net quantum of material consumed is only 113.4 TPD.

Learned Senior counsel pointed out that the dried Ossein 202 production is 13.3.TPD and wet Ossein required for gelatin

production is pumped into the liming plant, where it is treated

with lime for 35-45 days and treated lime as a whole is

transported to the gelatine unit for gelatine manufacture and

the limed Ossein production is 8.3 TPD. 130. The Mono-calcium Phosphate (MCP) generated

during acidulation is pumped to the Di-calcium Phosphate

(DCP) plant and treated with hydrated lime solution for

converting MCP to DCP at pH 5.6 to 5.8 The settled DCP slutty

is filtered, dried, packed and stored in closed storage yard. The

DCP production is 40.5 TPD. The sinews and bone meal

separated during crushed bone pre-treatment and is converted

to meat meal by dry process and wet process. Learned Senior

counsel pointed out that the dry form is packed and sold to

local farmers as meat meal. The meat meal production is 1

TPD. The bone meal separated after crushed bone washing is

cooked with steam and dried and sold to the farmers as

sterilized bone meal, which has since been stopped. Therefore,

it is pointed out that the total production is 63.1 TPD, namely,

13.3 TPD of Ossein, 8.3 TPD of limed Ossein, 40.5 TPD of DCP 203 and 1 TPD of meat meal. The waste generated is treated in the

ETP. It is pointed out that after the process of waste generated

in organic stream, the next process is degradation of organic

compounds in the anaerobic digester 1 and 2 and 21 TPD

equivalent of solid substance is converted into biogas at the

rate of 3000 cu.m. per day and in the inorganic stream, the

effluent is treated in the flash mixer, followed by Flocculator,

Primary clarifier, Diffused Air Flocculator, followed by Aeration

tank and the sludge from primary clarifier is taken into

thickener followed by Rotary Vaccum Drier, filter press and

sludge drier and the final sludge generated together in organic

stream and inorganic stream amounts to 25 TPD. The effluent

from DAF 1 and 2, further undergoes secondary and tertiary

treatment and finally discharged into the Chalakkudy river after

treatment. Further, during pre-treatment of crushed bone 3.5

TPD of bone meal and sinews is generated. Therefore, it is

clear that the total waste generated would be 28.5 TPD.

Approximately 21 TPD equivalent mass of biogas is generated

in the anaerobic reactor and therefore, the total output would

be 112.6 TPD, almost equal to the input and therefore, there

is material balance. 131. Learned Senior counsel pointed out that the

argument of the learned counsel appearing for the applicants

that there is no material balance and there is unaccounted

waste, is based on the erroneous presumption that the

arithmetic difference between the raw material consumption

and production amount to waste. But, it does not take into

account the loss of mass during the manufacturing process in

liquid and gaseous state and it does not take into account the

mass equivalent of the biogas being generated in the

anaerobic reactors and if this is taken into account there is

material balance. 132. Learned counsel further argued that the industry

is permitted to generate 18000 TPA of solid waste, amounting

to 49.31 TPD and the waste generated has always been within

the said parameter and though the report submitted by KSPCB

shows that the sludge generated from the ETP is only 15 to 18

TPD, it is not based on the scientific measurements and thus,

contrary facts are stated by the applicants. 205 133. The case of the applicants is that as the maximum

capacity of two anaerobic bio-digesters at the rate of 930 cu.m

per day would be only 1860 and not 3000 as claimed by the

industry and the effluent from DCP stream is not treated in the

bio-digesters and the industry has no other treatment system

in place to remove dissolved solids, suspended solids present in

the effluent stream and in addition, 3.5 tonnes of waste is

generated from bone processing. Even according to the

industry, the first anaerobic digester was commissioned only on

22.03.2014 and the second digester was commissioned during

October, 2015. The industry has not explained how the huge

volume of sludge and waste was managed before and after the

installation of the digesters. It is the case of the applicants that

biogas is a mixture of methane and carbon dioxide and the

biogas from the digestion of raw effluent from the Ossein plant

and sludge from the primary clarifier and secondary clarifier of

the ETP is expected to have a composition of roughly 65% of

methane and 35% of carbon dioxide Converting approximately

21 TPD of solid substance to biogas, it would generate atleast

21 TPD of biogas. It is also pointed out that according to the

industry, the pair of digesters that convert the raw effluent 206 from the Ossein plant directly to biogas generates 1500-3000

m3 per day per tank. Therefore, the total capacity of the biogas

plants would be 3000-6000 m3 per day. So, it is argued that to

fully account for converting approximately 21 TPD of solid

substance to biogas, the other pair of digesters - processing

sludge from the primary clarifier and the secondary clarifier of

the ETP would need to have the capacity to generate the

remainder of the biogas, i.e.at least 12000 - 15000 m3 per

day and in fact, the biogas plants for processing sludge from

the primary clarifier and the secondary clarifier of the ETP

have the capacity to generate the biogas at a rate of 12000-

15000 m3 per day, which is not possible. The applicants had

calculated the production capacity to generate biogas based on

the dimension and the height of the tanks as furnished by the

industry, namely, each tank has a diameter of 8 M and height

of 7 M. It was therefore argued by the applicants that each

digester can hold only 352 cu.m of effluents and can digest

only a maximum volume of 704 M3 in both the digesters in

46 hours and therefore, the claim of the industry about the

conversion of 21 MT of solids into biogas on daily basis can

never be correct. It is argued that considering the capacity of 207 two digesters, the maximum volume they can process is

11,019 M3 effluent in 30 days. The argument, therefore, is

that there is a net shortfall in the treatment capacity of 42,981

M3 effluent and therefore, there is a clear mismatch of the

input and the waste generated. This conclusion was based on

the diameter and the height of the tank of the digesters. The

industry filed a memo on 06.01.2017 pointing out that the

actual diameter of each tank is 18 meters and not 8 meters

and there was a clerical error in the written submissions filed

earlier, based on which, the applicants have contended that

there is mismatch between input and the waste generated. To

make the matter clear, the industry has filed an additional

reply showing that the anaerobic digesters convert

approximately 21 TPD of solid substance to biogas. It is

pointed out by the industry that the bio digesters are fitted

with flow meters and the flow of the effluents into the

digesters can be measured. The total quantum of effluent

generated in the organic and inorganic stream was

approximately 2900 cu.m per day and out of this, the sludge of

1860 cu.m per day of effluent from the organic stream is

processed and 21 TPD equivalent of solid is converted to 208 biogas. It is pointed out that totally there are 4 digesters, in

the ETP system. Out of this, one pair of digesters converts the

raw effluent from the Ossien plant directly to biogas and the

raw effluent from the equalization basin/effluent collection tank

is directely fed into the anaerobic digesters and another pair of

digesters converts feed from the primary clarifier and the

secondary clarifier to biogas. According to the industry, at the

inlet of raw effluent fed into the bio-digesters, the TSS is 3757

mg/l and the discharge at the outlet is 975 mg/l. So also, the

TDS at the inlet is 12611 mg/l and outlet is 5860 mg/l and

Chloride at the inlet is 4587 mg/l and at the outlet is 4587

mg/l. The TDS - Chlorides at the inlet is 8024 mg/l (12611 -

4587) and at the outlet is 1273 mg/l (5860 - 4587) and the

flow rate at the inlet is 82.6 m3/h. According to the industry,

the inlet sludge is a total of 23.36 TPD, namely, 3757 TSS X

82.6 (Average flow rate per hour) X 24 (Hours) = 7.45 MTD;

TDS minus chlorides = 8024 X 82.6 X 24 = 15.91 (7.45 MTD

+ 15.91 MTD). So also, the outlet sludge is a total of 4.45

TPD namely, 975 TSS X 82.6 (Average flow rate per hour) X

24 (Hours) = 1.93 MTD; TDS minus Chlorides = 1273 X 82.6 X

24 = 2.32 ( Total -1.93 + 2.32). Thus, the total outlet sludge 209 is 4.45 MTD. It is the case of the industry that the difference

between the above two values would be the amount of solid

mass converted to gas. Therefore, the total mass of solid

substance converted into gas is 18.91 MTD (23.36 TPD - 4.45

TPD and the sludge processed in the biogas plant feed from

the primary clarifier and the secondary clarifier together would

come to 2.8 MTD and the grand total from all plants would be

18.91 MTD + 2.8 MTD = 21.71 MTD . Therefore, it is clear that

21 MTD equivalent amount of solid substances is converted to

biogas. 134. The applicant filed a memo dated 07.01.2017 in

response to the document, namely, Technical Specifications of

the Biogas Plant, produced by the industry, contending that the

industry has to state the capacity of each anaerobic reactor,

the flow of rate of each anaerobic reactor, the retention time,

the effluent parameter of the effluent inflow from the organic

stream, the quantity of biogas generated from the process and

the ratio of BOD, COD oxidised and biogas produced. It is

argued that as per the report of NEERI dated May, 2014, the

reactor designed for a flow rate of 930 M3 per day with 210 hydraulic retention time of 42 hours and the anticipated

methane generation from the bioreactor is 0.45 m3 per kg of

COD oxidised and therefore, the retention time of 42 hours will

be taken into account while computing the biogas produced

and COD oxidised. It is also argued that as per NEERI report

dated May 2014 where the effluent parameter is provided, the

BOD to COD ratio with Ossein is shown as 0.42-0.48 and DCP

0.90-0.92 and it is not believable that the raw effluent from

the DCP plant alone have BOD and COD levels, which ought

to be much higher. Even if the figures stated therein are

correct, the total effluent generated from the Ossein plant is

83.90 cu.m.per hour, which would be 2013.6 cu.m per day

equivalent to 2013600 litres and as per the report of NEERI,

the TSS is 3757 mg/l and TDS is 12611 mg/l and the total

solids load of 16.358 g/l of effluent and the total solid, thus,

would be 16.358 X 2013600 , namely, 32938468.8 grams or

32948.4688 kilograms or 32.9384 tonnes. The total solid load

in the DCP effluent stream would be 1127.5 mg/l with TSS

and 28267.5 mg/l of TDS and thus, the total of solid load would

be 29.395 mg/l and the total effluent from DCP stream as

provided is 33.50m3/hour, which is 804 cu.m. per day or 211 804000 litres a day. According to the applicants, the total

solids present in the DCP stream is 804000 X 29.395. The

argument is that the total solids present in both the streams

together would be 32.9384 + 23.63358 tonnes, which amounts

to 56.57198 tonnes and even as claimed by the industry, if 21

tonnes of solids equivalent of biogas is produced, there would

be a balance of 35.57198 tonnes of solids, which is not being

treated. The argument is that as per the contentions of the

industry, the total final sludge generated from the organic and

inorganic stream amounts to 25 TPD only. 3.5 tonnes of solids

which would equivalent of 21 TPD, was broken down in the

biogas plant generating biogas and thus, the total production

would be 63.1 TPD, which is claimed to be equal to the input.

The applicants would contend that even in that case, the total

solids present in the organic and inorganic stream is 56.57198

tonnes, much more than the permitted input of 150.048 TPD.

It is also argued that the waste balance propounded by the

industry is grossly incorrect and even if 21 tonnes is broken

down in the anaerobic digester out of 32.9384 tonnes of solids

in the organic stream, 11.9384 tonnes a day remains from the

organic stream and the waste from pre-treatment of bones is 212 3.5 tonnes a day and together with the waste from the

inorganic DCP stream, the total would be 39.07198 tonnes a

day of waste remains and therefore, in any event,10.57198

tonnes a day of waste is unaccounted. The applicants would

also contend that it is impossible to process 3000 cu.m per day

at the anaerobic digester as there is a delay time of 42 hours

also to be taken into account. The argument is that from the

table furnished in the NEERI report dated May 2014 COD is

8635 mg/l and the total COD present is 2013600 litres

equivalent to 17387436 grams or 17387.436 kilograms and the

total volume of methane generation at the rate of 0.45 M3 per

kg of COD oxidised is only 7824.3462 M3 and if that is to be

correct, there should be 100% oxidisation of COD which will

not occur in any anaerobic reactor. It is also contended that

there is no basis or substance on the assertion of the

applicants that 21 TPD equivalent of solid substances is

converted into biogas and therefore, it is quite clear the

industry is not accounting huge quantity of untreated effluent ,

which is clandestinely being discharged into Chalakkudy river

and therefore, necessary directions are to be issued. 213 135. The industry clarified the suspicion created by the

applicant by filing written submissions, pointing out that the

methodology adopted by the applicant based on TSS and TDS

is not correct and he has not taken into account the various

critical aspects. It is pointed out that the total input is 113.4

TPD and the total product is 63.1 TPD. The total sludge

generated is 25 TPD, Bone meal and sinews generated is 3.5

tonnes per day and if 21 TPD equivalent solid substance is

converted into biogas, as claimed by the industry, the output is

also equal to the input and there is no unaccounted balance as

canvassed by the applicants. It is pointed out that the bio-

digesters are fitted with flow meters and the flow of the

effluents into the bio-digesters can be measured and the

total quantum of effluent generated in the organic and

inorganic stream is approximately 2900 cu.m. per day and out

of this effluent, the sludge in 1860 cu.m. per day from the

organic stream is processed and 21 TPD equivalent of solid is

converted into biogas. The industry pointed out that there are

a total of 4 bio-digesters in the ETP system and one pair of

digesters converts the raw effluent from the Ossein plant

directly to the biogas. The raw effluent from the equalization 214 basin/effluent collection tank is directly fed into the anaerobic

digesters. The other pair of digesters converts feed from the

primary clarifier and the secondary clarifier to biogas. The

Industry pointed out that TDS and TSS and Chlorides in raw

effluent fed into the bio-digesters and that in the outlet of the

bio-digesters, as per the report of NEERI dated May 2014, TSS

is 3757 mg/l and at the outlet 975mg/l, TDS is 12611 mg/l and

at the outlet 5860 mg/l, Chloride is 4587 mg/l and at the outlet

4587 mg/l. The Chlorides are same at the inlet and outlet, as

they do not undergo conversion in the bio-digesters. The TDS-

Chlorides (TDS minus Chlorids) at the inlet is 8024 and at

the outlet is 1273. The flow rate is 82.6 m3/h The inlet sludge

of TSS should therefore be 3757 X 82.6 X 24 hours which

would be 7.45 MTD. The TDS minus chlorides at the inlet

would be 8024 X 82.6 X 24 , which would be 15.91 TPD.

Therefore, the total inlet would be 23.36 TPD. At the outlet,

according to the industry, TSS would be 975 X 82.6 X 24

hours, which would be 1.903 MTD,TDS minus Chlorides would

be 1273 X 82.6 X 24 hours = 2.32 TPD. Thus, the total outlet

would be 4.45 TPD. 136. The argument is that the difference between the

above two values would amount to solid mass converted into

gas and therefore, the total mass of solid substance converted

into gas would be 23.36 TPD - 4.45 TPD, namely 18.91 MTD.

It is pointed out that the sludge processed in the biogas plant

fed from the primary clarifier and the secondary clarifier, in

the inlet would be 80 m3 per day X 4 %, namely 3.2 MTD and

in the outlet would be 80 m3 per day X 0.5 %, namely 0.4 MTD

and thus, the total quantity converted is 2.8 MTD. Learned

counsel appearing for the industry thus, would submit that the

grand total from all the plants would amount to 21.71 MTD and

from the above calculations, 21 MTD equivalent amount of solid

substance is converted into biogas and therefore, the

contention that there is no material balance, canvassed by the

learned counsel appearing for the applicants, is not correct. 137. Reports of the NEERI and the CPC B would

establish that the wash water generated by washing of crushed

bone after the pre-treatment is directly fed into the ETP and

after the washing, the crushed bone goes to the acid bath for

treatment with 4% concentrated HCL to produce Ossein and 216 from there, the Ossein is taken to the paddle washer for

washing and removing free acid and impurities. In the paddle

washer neutralization of ossein is conducted using hydrated

lime. After neutralization, Ossein is dried and packed. The

Mono calcium phosphate generated from acidulation process is

pumped to DCP Plant to manufacture DCP and treated with

hydrated lime solution for conversion of MCP to DCP and the

impurities from the DCP plant are taken to the ETP Plant. DCP

slurry is filtered using Rotary Drum Vacuum filter (RDV), dried

and packed and stored. The filtrate and supernatant generated

during the process is sent to ETP through open drain and the

effluent is taken to equalization basin of DCP and equalised

process effluent goes to flash mixer and then taken to

Flocculator1 and 2 , primary clarifier and thereafter to aeration

tank 1 and from there to the secondary clarifier and then

again to flash mixer and then to Flocculator and then to tertiary

clarifier and then to collection tank, and from there to the

sand filter and then to delay pond and then to collection tank.

The treated water is reused . The treated effluent from the

collection tank and the polishing pond, back wash water from

the sand filter are discharged into the Chalakkudy river. From 217 the neutralization basin, the processed effluent goes to the

buffer tank and from there to the anaerobic tank and from

there the Lamella Clarifier and from there, it goes to flash

mixer. Therefore, the flash mixer receives effluent from the

DCP: process as well as from the Ossein process and from the

flash mixer, it goes to Flocculatorfrom where it goes to Primary

clarifier 1 and 2 where biogas is produced by oxidation of COD. 138. The applicants originally attacked the case of the

industry that 21 TPD equivalent of solid substance is converted

into biogas based on the details furnished by the industry

regarding the diameter of the bio digesters. Instead of 18 m, it

was wrongly shown as 8 meters. The mistake in mentioning

the actual diameter of the bio-digester was corrected and

thereafter, the calculation of the capacity of biogas was

furnished by the industry and on going through the entire

aspect of the matter, we cannot agree with the case of the

applicants that 21 TPD biogas was generated from the bio-

digesters. As pointed out by the industry when the total

quantum of solids excluding the chlorides which do not

undergo any conversion in the biodigesters, the inlet sludge 218 would be 23.36 TPD while the outlet sludge would be 4.45 TPD.

Therefore, the difference is 18.91 MTD, which was necessarily

the total mass of solids converted into biogas. In addition to

that, the solid processed in the biogas stream from the primary

clarifier and the secondary clarifier as contended by the

industry is taken into consideration, the total quantity

converted would be 18.9 TPD + 2.8 TPD = 21. 7 TPD, which

would corroborate the case of the industry that 21 TPD of total

substance is converted into biogas. Therefore, it could be seen

that when the quantity of material consumed by the industry is

113.4 TPD, the total waste generated would be 28.5 TPD and

when the quantity of waste converted to biogas at the bio-

digesters is taken into consideration, namely, 21 TPD, the total

out put would be 112.60 TPD and therefore, we do not find any

difference in the material balance as alleged by the applicants. 139. Therefore, on the analysis of the entire facts and

materials, we hold that there is no material to establish that

the industry has discharged sludge along with the treated liquid

effluent into the Chalakkudy river. The sludge generated by the

industry is non hazardous and non toxic. The Effluent 219 Treatment Plant is functioning efficiently and as of now the

discharge of the treated effluent from the ETP to the

Challakudy river has no adverse impact on the river water or

the ground water. The points are answered accordingly. 140. Point No.7: From the materials produced and

evaluated earlier, it is clear that before the commissioning of

the digesters, the industry could not have treated the entire

effluent to achieve the prescribed parameters. But, that

position has now been changed as the industry has already

started commissioning the bio-digesters. Hence, we find no

scope for the earlier grievance, provided the ETP including the

bio-digesters are working properly to their optimum. At the

same time, based on the findings recorded in the report

submitted by the CPC B in the Original Application 412 of 2016,

(PB) and in the light of the materials available, we find it

necessary to issue certain directions for remedying the injury

caused to the environment and also to completely avoid

causing any pollution by the operation of the industry. The

industry had stocked huge quantity of sludge generated at

Kaliyapuram dumpsite in Palakkad district and left it 220 unutilized and unattended. Even though the presence of

mercury found in the sludge cannot be attributed to the

respondent industry and the sludge is non toxic and non

hazardous, the sludge when left unattended, would necessarily

cause pollution of the ground water. The industry is, therefore,

bound to remove the same from the site and dispose it in

accordance with the rules without further delay. As no

balancing of the materials and the water used and discharged,

based on the permissible quantity as provided in the order of

Consent granted by the Pollution control board, it is also

necessary to direct the KSPCB to conduct a proper water

balancing and material balancing to check any portion of the

untreated effluent being discharged into the land or water

body. To facilitate proper balancing of materials and water, it is

necessary to direct the industry to install flow meters of the

processing units to account the exact quantify the water drawn

as well as discharged. 141. Therefore, based on the above materials discussed

including the reports submitted by the NEERI, KSPCB and CPC B, and applying the precautionary principle to avoid any 221 possibility of causing pollution to both air and water in the

environment, we find it necessary to issue the following

directions: v. The respondent industry shall ensure proper

scientific operation and maintenance of ETP to meet

the prescribed standards without dilution.

vi.The respondent industry shall adopt appropriate

technologies to recycle the treated effluent to the

maximum extent and to minimise the discharge of

effluent into the river. vii. Ultimately, the respondent industry shall make

every effort to achieve Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD)

to the extend possible. viii. The respondent industry shall construct a

sewage treatment Plant to treat the domestic

sewage generated within the premises. The treated

effluent from the sewage treatment plant shall be

used for gardening and for the development of

green belt. ix. The respondent industry shall ensure that the

biogas generated from anaerobic digester is utilised

completely as fuel. They shall maintain records of 223 the biogas generation, which is utilised as fuel on

daily basis. x. The respondent industry shall ensure continuous

operation and maintenance of the bio filters to

avoid any odour nuisance in the premises of the

industry. xi. The respondent industry shall refurbish the

stack as per Emission Regulation Part III published

by CPC B with respect to safe guards and sampling

platform. xii. The respondent industry shall phase out the

usage of fire wood in the boilers and alternative

eco-friendly fuel only shall be used. xiii. The respondent industry shall augment the

existing bag filters adequately to meet the

prescribed standards. xiv. The respondent industry shall operate the

continuous Ambient Air Quality monitoring system 224 as per the norms at the appropriate location, which

is free from obstructions. xv. The respondent industry shall re-lay the

existing discharge pipeline, which takes the treated

effluent from the ETP to the Chalakkudy river,

above the ground level in a time bound manner.

The re-laying of the discharge line shall be done in

such a way as to discharge the treated effluent

upstream side, while making arrangement to draw

fresh water from downstream side. xvi. The respondent industry shall take immediate

steps for removal and safe disposal of unutilised

sludge dumped at Kaliyapuram of Palakkd district,

within four months from the date of this judgment.

The industry shall also take steps for the removal

and safe disposal of all sludge generated and stored

within the premises of the industry, within a period

of six months. xvii. The Kerala State Pollution Control Board

(KSPCB) shall amend the conditions in the Consent 225 granted to the respondent industry, providing

installation of electro-magnetic flow meters at the

ETP inlet and outlet. xviii. The KSPCB shall amend the conditions in the

Consent granted to the industry to include

standards for TDS and Chlorides in tune with the

standards prescribed for drinking water for the

treated effluent discharged into Chalakkudy river,

as it is a source of drinking water for the public.

xix.The KSPCB shall closely monitor the working of

the industry and see that no solid waste including

the sludge generated in the industry is stored and

accumulated un-scientifically anywhere in the

premises of the industry. xx. The KSPCB shall also take steps to see that the

sludge generated by the industry is not used for

irrigation purpose in the food crops, in accordance

with the instructions of MoEF & CC. xxi .The KSPCB shall amend the condition in the

Consent order for disposal of sludge to TSDF site.

xxii. The KSPCB shall inspect the industry within a

month, from the date of the judgment, and shall

file a status report before the Tribunal, which shall

be placed before the Bench. xxiii. Thereafter the KSPCB shall inspect the

industry once in every three months and monitor

the working of the industry its progress in the

implementation of the directions issued and its

effect on the environment and ecology and submit

a quarterly report before the Tribunal. xiv. The KSPCB shall conduct periodical audit of the

materials consumed and the effluents discharged

by the industry. Such audit is necessary for

balancing the materials including water

consumption and the effluents being

discharged/disposed, so as to avoid any possibility

of polluting the water, environment and ecology. 227 142. The applications are disposed accordingly with no

order as to costs. Justice M.S.Nambiar
 Judicial Member

 P.S.Rao
 Expert Member