TUSHAR RAO GEDELA, J. [ The proceeding has been conducted through Hybrid mode ] 1. By way of an oral application the applicant/appellant seeks
 conversion of the sentences as imposed by the learned Trial Court in
 respect of offences under section 376 of Indian Penal Code, 1860
 (hereinafter referred to as "IPC") of RI for 10 years with fine of Rs.
 1,00,000/-, in default whereof, to undergo further SI of 1 year and
 offence under section 306 IPC of RI for 7 years and with fine of Rs. 50,000/-, in default whereof, to undergo a further SI of 6 months. These
 were directed to run consecutively. 2. According to the Nominal Roll, the applicant/appellant has
 already undergone a total punishment of 7 years 7 months and 25 days.
 It is the submission of the applicant/appellant that in case this Court
 converts the sentence of consecutive punishment to one of concurrent,
 he would abide by the punishment and not pursue the appeal. 3. Though no formal application seeking the relief of conversion of
 the sentences from one being "consecutive" to one being "concurrent"
 has not been filed by the applicant/appellant, however, Mr. M.L. Yadav,
 learned counsel has made an oral prayer and argued at length. On
 instructions from the applicant/appellant, learned counsel submits that in
 case, if this Court is inclined to allow such prayers, the
 applicant/appellant would not further pursue his appeal bearing Criminal
 Appeal No. 159 of 2016. 4. Keeping in view that there is nothing in the Code requiring that
 convicts ought to file any formal application seeking such prayers, this
 Court is of the opinion that the oral prayers can be considered. As such,
 the said oral application is being considered. 5. Mr. M.L. Yadav, learned counsel had argued for the
 applicant/appellant whereas, Mr. Haider, learned APP had argued
 extensively for the State.' 6. In order to appreciate the arguments, it would be relevant to
 consider the facts arising therein, the same is being extracted from the
 impugned judgement dated 02.12.2015, as under: CONTENTIONS OF THE APPLICANT/APPELLANT 7. The short and concise submissions of Mr.Yadav, learned counsel,
 are that the offences stated to have been committed by the
 applicant/appellant, even if assumed to be true, are part of the same
 transaction. In that, according to learned counsel, the committing of
 suicide by the deceased is directly related to the offence under section
 376 IPC, which the applicant/appellant is stated to have committed
 many times over period of time. Though, according to the prosecution,
 he submits, the offence of rape was committed over a period of time
 which is separate offence or offences, whereas the act of committing
 suicide by the deceased and the abetment thereof by the
 applicant/appellant is composite and a separate offence. 8. However, according to learned counsel for the
 applicant/appellant, the committing of suicide by the deceased could be
 a result of, or consequence of the offence of rape, which is stated to
 have occurred over a period of time. He submits that the two offences
 are thus, part of one transaction. On that basis, learned counsel submits
 that the sentences can be directed to run concurrently and not
 consecutively. 9. Mr. Yadav relies upon the following judgements, both on law as
 well as on facts: 10. Per contra, Mr. Shoaib Haider, learned APP for the State
 vehemently opposes the said prayers by pointing out the seriousness and
 the gravity and magnitude of the offences committed by the
 applicant/appellant. Learned APP submits that the applicant/appellant
 firstly committed rape upon the deceased and then blackmailed her
 subsequently again and again to establish physical relations with him
 despite the deceased being opposed to the same. He submits that the
 deceased was a married lady and the applicant/appellant was the friend
 of the deceased and they used to work together and taking undue
 advantage of his friendship, he committed such brutal act of rape upon
 the deceased, not satisfied with that, the applicant/appellant forced the
 poor lady and ravished her at every opportunity he got. According to the
 learned APP, it is clear from the records and evidence that unable to Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:VINOD KUMAR CRL.A. 159/2016 Page 5 of 21 Signing Date:31.10.2023 16:04:28 take this forceful onslaught of her being ravished by the
 applicant/appellant, being unable to disclose the truth to her husband
 and in all probability feeling ashamed of such acts, deceased victim was
 constrained to end her life abruptly by taking her own life, to release
 herself of this savage assault on her body and soul which must have
 scarred her and traumatized her endlessly. 11. In other words, according to Mr. Haider, many instances of rape
 by the applicant/appellant upon the deceased may have some bearing
 upon the reason for committing suicide, yet it appears to have been a
 case of unbearable trauma, humiliation, sense of helplessness, and the
 sub-human feeling the deceased may have torturously passed through,
 day and night, that must have propelled the deceased to take such
 extreme step. 12. Thus, according to Mr. Haider, learned APP, the offences are
 distinct in their nature and consequence and, as such, are not part of the
 same or single transaction. Moreover, the offences are dastardly and
 even otherwise on merits, the applicant/appellant does not deserve any
 leniency or mercy and the sentences ought to run consecutively. Even
 otherwise there is nothing to show that the applicant/appellant has
 reformed in the meanwhile. To substantiate his aforesaid arguments, Mr.
 Haider, learned APP relies upon the following judgements: section (2) of Section 31 CrPC to limit the aggregate of
 sentences--that in no case, the aggregate of consecutive
 sentences passed against an accused shall exceed fourteen
 years. "Fourteen years' rule" contained in clause (a) of
 the proviso to Section 31(2) CrPC may not be applicable
 in relation to sentence of imprisonment for life, since
 imprisonment for life means the convict will remain in jail
 till the end of his normal life." In Ramesh Chilwal (Supra)
 "4. Since this Court issued notice only to clarify the
 sentence awarded by the trial Judge, there is no need to go
 into all the factual details. We are not inclined to modify
 the sentence. However, considering the fact that the trial
 Judge has awarded life sentence for an offence Under Section 302 , in view of Section 31 of the Code of Criminal Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:VINOD KUMAR CRL.A. 159/2016 Page 7 of 21 Signing Date:31.10.2023 16:04:28 Procedure, 1973, we make it clear that all the sentences
 imposed under the Indian Penal Code, the Gangsters Act
 and the Arms Act are to run concurrently. 5. While confirming the conviction, we clarify that all the
 sentences are to run concurrently. To this extent, the
 judgment of the trial Court as affirmed by the High Court
 is modified." Learned APP, relies upon the aforesaid judgements to buttress his
 argument that in the facts of the present case, the benefit of section 427 Cr.P.C., 1973 to the applicant/appellant should not be granted
 considering the gravity and nature of the offences established against the
 applicant/appellant. ANALYSIS OF THE COURT:- However, before that, it would be apposite to extract section 427 Cr.P.C., 1973 hereunder: (2) When a person already undergoing a sentence of
 imprisonment for life is sentenced on a subsequent
 conviction to imprisonment for a term or imprisonment
 for life, the subsequent sentence shall run concurrently
 with such previous sentence." 15. Before this Court proceeds to consider as to whether the
 provisions of section 427 Cr.P.C., 1973 are applicable to the facts
 obtaining in this case, it would be appropriate to examine as to how the
 aforesaid provision has been considered by Supreme Court and other
 High Courts. a) Vicky @ Vikas Vs. State (NCT of Delhi ),
 reported in (2020) 11 SCC 540:- 12. The submission, in our opinion, appears to be
 misconceived. The material produced by the State
 unmistakably indicates that the two offences for which
 the appellant was prosecuted are quite distinct and
 different. The case under the Customs Act may, to some
 extent, overlap the case under the Gold (Control) Act ,
 but it is evidently on different transactions. The
 complaint under the Gold (Control) Act relates to
 possession of 7000 tolas of primary gold prohibited
 under Section 8 of the said Act. The complaint under
 the Customs Act is with regard to smuggling of gold
 worth Rs 12.5 crores and export of silver worth Rs 11.5
 crores. On these facts, the courts are not unjustified in
 directing that the sentences should be consecutive and
 not concurrent." 11. After referring to Mohd. Akhtar Hussain4 and other
 cases, in V.K. Bansal v. State of Haryana5 , the Supreme
 Court held that the legal position favours exercise of
 discretion to the benefit of the prisoner in cases where the
 prosecution is based on a single transaction no matter
 different complaints may have been filed. In V.K. Bansal5,
 it was held as under: (V.K. Bansal case5, SCC p. 217,
 paras 14-16)
 "14. We may at this stage refer to the decision of this
 Court in Mohd. Akhtar Hussain v. Collector of
 Customs4 in which this Court recognised the basic rule
 of convictions arising out of a single transaction
 justifying concurrent running of the sentences ...." 13. Following the decision in V.K. Bansal5, in Benson v.
 State of Kerala7 , the Supreme Court directed that the
 sentences imposed in each of the cases shall run
 concurrently with the sentence imposed in Crime No. 8
 which was then currently operative. However, the Court
 held that the benefit of "concurrent running of sentences" 14. Further, in Anil Kumar v. State of Punjab8 , it was held
 by this Court that: (SCC p. 55, para 5)
 "5. In terms of sub-section (1) of Section 427, if a
 person already undergoing a sentence of imprisonment
 is sentenced on a subsequent conviction to
 imprisonment, such subsequent term of imprisonment
 would normally commence at the expiration of the
 imprisonment to which he was previously sentenced.
 Only in appropriate cases, considering the facts of the
 case, the court can make the sentence run concurrently
 with an earlier sentence imposed. The investiture of
 such discretion, presupposes that such discretion be
 exercised by the court on sound judicial principles and
 not in a mechanical manner. Whether or not the
 discretion is to be exercised in directing sentences to
 run concurrently would depend upon the nature of the
 offence/offences and the facts and circumstances of
 each case." b) Mohd. Akhtar Hussain @ Ibrahim Ahmed
 Bhatti Vs. Assistant Collector of Customs (prevention), Ahmedabad & Anr, reported in
 (1988) 4 SCC 183:- c) V.K. Bansal Vs. State of Haryana & Anr ,
 reported in (2013) 7 SCC 211:- 15. In Madan Lal case1 this Court relied upon the decision
 in Akhtar Hussain case5 and affirmed the direction of the
 High Court for the sentences to run concurrently. That too
 was a case under Section 138 of the Negotiable
 Instruments Act. The State was aggrieved of the direction
 that the sentences shall run concurrently and had
 appealed to this Court against the same. This Court,
 however, declined interference with the order passed by
 the High Court and upheld the direction issued by the
 High Court. 16. In conclusion, we may say that the legal position
 favours exercise of discretion to the benefit of the prisoner
 in cases where the prosecution is based on a single
 transaction no matter different complaints in relation
 thereto may have been filed as is the position in cases
 involving dishonour of cheques issued by the borrower
 towards repayment of a loan to the creditor." d) Bihari Lal Vs. State NCT of Delhi , reported in
 2015 SCC OnLine Del 11828:- e) Yamin Vs. The State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi ),
 reported in 2021 SCC OnLine Del 33:- 23. However, while taking into consideration the
 legislative intent,
 interpretation of penal statute and the objections of the
 State, the
 Court observed as under: f) Mohd Zahid Vs. State Through NCB,
 reported in (2022) 12 SCC 426:- However, there must be a specific direction or order by
 the court that the subsequent sentence to run concurrently
 with the previous sentence. 18. Applying the law laid down by this Court in the
 aforesaid decisions and the principles of law enumerated
 hereinabove to the facts of the case on hand, the
 submissions on behalf of the appellant-accused that his
 subsequent sentence to run concurrently with the previous
 sentence is to be rejected outright. In the present case the
 appellant has been convicted with respect to two different
 transactions, there are different crime numbers and the
 cases have been decided by the different judgments.
 Therefore, the appellant is not entitled to any benefit of
 concurrent sentence under Section 427 CrPC. As observed
 hereinabove, there is no specific order or direction issued
 by the court while imposing the subsequent sentence that
 the subsequent sentence to run concurrently with the
 previous sentence." On an overall consideration of the ratio laid down in the aforesaid
 judgments, it is apparent that the Court can exercise its jurisdiction
 under the provisions of section 427 Cr.P.C., 1973, carefully and on
 sound legal principles and factual foundation therefore being laid
 properly by the parties. The exercise is purely discretionary and applied
 only on case to case basis with no straight jacket formula. The foremost
 of those principles being that whether the two offences are intertwined
 and interconnected with the facts obtaining in a particular case,
 interspersed in such manner that the Court can possibly reach a
 conclusion that they form one single unitary aspect, though the offences
 by themselves, are distinct. This again may not be the only aspect to be
 considered during examination of the facts of a case while considering
 the application under section 427 Cr.P.C., 1973. 16. So far as the reliance of Mr. Haider, learned APP on the
 judgements on O.M. Cherian (Supra) and Ramesh Chilwal (Supra) is
 concerned the factual distinction in those cases in comparison to the
 present case is that the Supreme Court was examining an issue which
 arose from the first offence entailing the punishment of life sentence and
 then considering as to whether for the other offences the sentences
 should run consecutively or concurrently in the light of section 31 Cr.P.C., 1973. So far as the judgement of the Supreme Court in Mohd.
 Akthar (Supra) and V.K. Bansal (Supra) as concerned this Court has
 considered the same and applied the ratio in favour of the
 applicant/appellant and as such do not enure to the benefit of the
 prosecution. 17. Having said that, the said principles may now be applied on the
 facts obtaining in the present case. As per the prosecution, the
 applicant/appellant, the husband of the deceased and the deceased
 herself were working in the same place. It appears from the narration of
 the prosecution that the applicant/appellant had committed forcible
 sexual intercourse upon the deceased commencing from the month of
 November 2014 till May 2015 and as a consequence thereof, unable to
 take this humiliation and not being able to express herself coupled with
 the instigation and threats of the applicant/appellant that he would show
 her obscene video to everybody, if she did not oblige him, she
 committed suicide by hanging. 18. During the course of trial, the prosecution was able to establish its
 charges and accordingly, the learned Trial Court imposed the aforesaid Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:VINOD KUMAR CRL.A. 159/2016 Page 19 of 21 Signing Date:31.10.2023 16:04:28 punishment of RI for 10 years for offence of rape and RI for 7 years for
 the offence of section 306 IPC. 19. This Court has considered the facts obtaining in the present case
 very minutely and tends to agree with the submissions of Mr. M.L.
 Yadav, learned Counsel for the applicant/appellant. The reason and
 rationale behind the same is that though the two offences by themselves
 are distinct and may have occurred at different points in time however,
 the causal facts giving rise to the said offences are intrinsically
 intertwined with each other and interspersed in a manner that both
 cannot be segregated to conclude that the offences are based on two
 different and distinct set of facts. This of course is not to say that the
 offences alleged and proved against the applicant/appellant are less
 heinous or are condonable. To this Court, it appears that the committing
 of suicide by the deceased was as a consequence and result of the
 trauma, humiliation, shame that the deceased felt during the interregnum
 when the applicant/appellant was committing the offence under section
 376 IPC over a period of time. It is not the case of the prosecution that
 the deceased committed suicide on any independent or unconnected
 factor having no relation either to the applicant/appellant or to the
 offence under section 376 IPC. Rather, it appears from the case of the
 prosecution that its thrust was predicated upon the rape having been
 committed over a period of time by the applicant/appellant that resulted
 in the deceased taking the sad but extreme step of taking her own life. 20. Viewing from the above angle, this Court is of the considered
 opinion that both the offences form part of the same transaction having Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:VINOD KUMAR CRL.A. 159/2016 Page 20 of 21 Signing Date:31.10.2023 16:04:28 intertwined and intrinsic facts, interspersed in such manner that the
 causal factor cannot be held to be so distinct as to conclude that the
 offences are unrelated, for the purposes of applying the principles of section 427 Cr.P.C., 1973. 21. The upshot of the above analysis leads this Court to apply the
 provisions of section 427 Cr.P.C., 1973 to the present case and conclude
 that the benefit thereof can and is granted to the applicant/appellant and
 consequently the sentences under section 376 and section 306 IPC
 imposed by the learned Trial Court to run "consecutively", are directed
 to now run "concurrently". 22. Having regard to the undertaking given by the applicant/appellant
 through Mr. M L Yadav, learned counsel, the appeal is dismissed as not
 pursued/pressed. 23. The appeal and pending applications, if any, are disposed of
 accordingly. 24. Copy of this order be sent to the concerned Jail Superintendent. TUSHAR RAO GEDELA, J. OCTOBER 31, 2023/rl Signature Not Verified Digitally Signed By:VINOD KUMAR CRL.A. 159/2016 Page 21 of 21 Signing Date:31.10.2023 16:04:28