SOURCE: Reddit - r/Coimbatore
CITY: Coimbatore
TITLE: Coimbatore is one of the safest place to live - appreciation post
AUTHOR: Routine_Extension_45
DATE: 2023-12-09
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Coimbatore/comments/18e8dti/coimbatore_is_one_of_the_safest_place_to_live/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hello, Bengali here, living in your city for about 7 months now. I have been to multiple cities but as per my experience, Coimbatore people are the most honest ones. 

There is a supermarket near my area, we usually visit there to get groceries. There is an unprotected place just outside the gated mall, where visitors have to keep their bags etc before entering. 'unprotected' in the sense, the guard does not stay there for most of the time. so, one day we kept our umbrella there and after shopping, we forgot that umbrella. after coming back to home, i remembered about it but the mall is not that much close, so decided to let it go and visit after a couple days. We expected that the umbrella will be taken by someone by then. but to our surprise, it was kept safely at the cash counter and when asked for it, they handed it over to me without asking any question. i was surprised because, even if I assume that the shop employees took the umbrella at the end of the day, anyone had the chance to take it before that. Even the employees could have taken it within a couple days when they saw noone claiming it. but it did not happen and I got back my favourite umbrella. 

There are more incidents in Coimbatore, where I forgot my stuff at places like post office and shops, and got it back later. These days, I often keep my stuff at places (where I usually visit) if I have to run an errand nearby. 

In cities like Kolkata or Mumbai, this will hardly happen, I lost so many things and people tried to scam many times lol - I think, in most metro cities there is a similar scenario. 

Visited Nashik once and the locals told be to stay aware about the locals themselves (varies area-wise), though Nashik is also a nice place to live in. Visited Vizag and Goa some years ago, those are also pretty nice and safe places. 

I am pretty much convinced that the the rate of theft etc are much low in Coimbatore. I think the reason is the people's mindset here. People are striving to work hard and earn rather than taking from others. Maybe, high education rate and low poverty are two other factors. There might be other problems in the city but from the perspective of safety, Coimbatore is one of the safest cities to live.