SOURCE: Reddit - r/Hyderabad
CITY: Hyderabad
TITLE: My Worst Experience Ever as a Tourist
AUTHOR: sandeepdshenoy
DATE: 2023-10-25
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/17fl611/my_worst_experience_ever_as_a_tourist/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hi Everyone,

*TLDR - Planned trip to Hyderabad, Got sweet talked by a travel agent and got cheated out of money in the end because of not asking the details clearly, when he was evading the question.*

This post is going to be a bit long as i really need to vent this somewhere. I visited Hyderabad with my family for a few days. The plan was some local sight seeing and ramoji. So after getting suggestion from the Airbnb i was staying, I called a guy(lets call him AH) who said he deals with tourists daily and said he will take care of everything and call him when i reach there.

The rate which he told me were - 80KM+8hrs Rs.2800/- per day. Extra hour Rs.200/- , Extra KM Rs.18/- per KM.

So I told AH, i will send Rs.500/- as advance when he said I need to send at least Rs.1000/- and that i need to trust him. So while sending the money, i also asked him is the car coming from far or is it near my location and how the distance is calculated, to which, he said there is no need to worry, it wont cost that much and everything is going to be fine.

I also had to return home via airport, so initially i asked him to drop to closest metro and i was planning to take uber from somewhere near, to which he said he will drop to airport and it wont cost that much.

Day-1 - The problems started on day one, when the driver asked me money for fuel when the trip started and only half hour passed. This should have been the red flag, but i told the driver i have already paid an advance and why was he asking money when the trip just started. Then i had to call AH and discuss this and when i told what i said to the driver to AH, he said he will take care of it. But then i ended up paying Rs.100/- of the Rs.700/- to leave the place. Then AH called me and paid the whole Rs.1100/- i had spent until then, saying he can pay more if needed. I guess i missed his sarcasm and was thinking was he insane or innocent. That day we actually used only 40KM of the 80KM, but took 2 hours extra.

Day 2- After a bit of sight seeing and on the way to the airport, AH called the car driver and talked something and then i got a message in whatsapp asking me to transfer Rs.6200, the split up was like below this : Day 1 - Rs.2800 + 600 ( 3 Hours Extra), Day 2 - Rs.2800/- plus extra when the trip is complete. This amount baffled me and i told him we only used 2 hours extra on day 1. Thats when i got to know his real tatics, the distance and time is calculated from the office, which is 10KM away from my stay according to the driver. So each day 20KM and around 1-2Hrs is lost even before the day starts.

But i agreed to pay 6200, but i said i will send half then and half after i reach the airport. Thats when shit really hit the fan. He started to guilt trip me and was saying a lot of bullshit about trust when i already agreed to send half then and next half in like 30 minutes. Then he asked me to pay extra for the distance over 80KM that day, because based on the meter, that day we had already drove around 50KM, AH was saying that, that days trip will go over 80KM because the distance from airport to the office is 35KM while google maps says its 27KM, but he will only take the higher number. 

This went on for a while and because he said the office is 7KM from my stay and not 10KM like the driver said, and i had written the numbers each day before start, i was able to reduce AH original extimate of 105KM of that day's total travel to 92KM(50KM + 7KM + 35KM).

In the end i was cheated out of some money because of this scam. So if anyone is planning to visit Hyderabad, always check how many Kilometers is the office of the travels is away from the stay and find someone else if its too far. This whole scheme is to profit off tourits, but there is a limit to which people should try to extort money. I definetely would have arranged someone else if i had known this office to office distance critieria. I guess a lesson learned.