SOURCE: Reddit - r/Siliguri
CITY: Siliguri
TITLE: I paid price for someone's actions 
AUTHOR: One_Kick3725
DATE: 2024-04-08
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/siliguri/comments/1bz4w9l/i_paid_price_for_someones_actions/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hi guys, I'm 26m living with 1 in a small room. We're work at same place and didn't have much connection other then that. We eat and go to work and watch movies but it's just casual friendship. Two months before, I got a call from my college mates that he is looking for job and will come here and stay with me for small time while looking for job like that. I asked the roommate and he agreed. He came and we're going and eating and we two go to work, he simply lays on the room and play games and sleep. He hasn't contributed much to spendings and rent and just eats and enjoys himself. I think his parents also not rich if I remember correctly but he doesn't think about that and haven't tried for any job but simply sleeping and playing and watching movies. It got annoyed for us and we casually hinting him to get job or contribute like that. This month, owner found out about and made us pay for his rent also(rent as per head) I myself spend money for him and ask him to return soon but he didn't care and when we went to work, he will start roaming, go to theatres and eat and just come and sleep. I asked him, atleast get part time job but he didn't care. I already gave him like ₹3000 as debt + rent money thinking he'll return part by part and already relation between my roommate and me got heated and now we're not taking much other than small things because of him and I managed last month by getting some loans and still now I'm out of money and he also don't have much amount and I asked my roommate some and he spared me like ₹200 and now it's also out because two person eating and everything and I already told him and smoothly and harshly that he is weight in my head and I already spend too much and don't have anything. He started crying saying and I don't know what to do and saying that he'll return money and vacate the room as soon as possible and hearing that I'm regret this. I can't ask my roommate and my college mate also. I asked my friends and can't get any. Can anyone spare me just ₹100? I will return it within 10th. Don't get angry and say it's fraud or scam bro, I'm already too tired and tried asking advance but no use and I'm in this situation really. Need help