SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kolkata
CITY: Kolkata
TITLE: 22M, how do I un-fu*k my life. Please please help

AUTHOR: Final_Photograph9691
DATE: 2024-07-08
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/kolkata/comments/1dxszdw/22m_how_do_i_unfuk_my_life_please_please_help/
--- POST TEXT ---

Please please, hear me out. Bec. no one ever did. Lol.
I'm literally typing this sitting at the corner of a hilly road in Northern Bengal right now. Alone and crying. Yes, I am miserable, I hate myself, I hate everyone.

Let's start with how I ended up in this situation in a gist. 

My dad works at a PSU. Due to his transfers, I moved places, schools all throughout my life. Met lots of people, made many superficial friends, as I always knew it's just a matter of 2 years or 3 at max. I was always very self-centred, thou I loved to hear what others have to say about themselves.

This untill in 2015, I was in class 9, we moved to a tier 2 city in WB, I made ths best of friends I could ever meet.
 I met this girl (let's call her A), we instantly clicked, talked for hours and hours and developed feelings for someone for the first time ever. I confessed. She responded with a yes.
Following this the next 2 years were the best years of my life, I could ever have.

Class 11, life happened, dad got transferred again.
I had 2-3 options
1. moving with him to Delhi 
2. Go to kota and study in Allen (I got 100% scholarship)
3. Stay in my current school and take up PCB
Stupid me who always dreamt of becoming a doctor, couldn't even think of anything except option 3. Gf (A) was also in favor of the same.

Cut to end of class 12, something happened, she started changing. It was odd, it seemed off. We fought almost daily, but always made up somehow. It was evident that it's me who's doing the most to keep the relationship alive.
Covid happened. We still kept in touch, thou my mental health started declining due to the constant fear of losing her.

Somehow cleared NEET and got into a low level government medical College in WB. She couldn't, so took up a private med school in Pune. We started long distance.

We still had our fair share of fights all through our 1st year, again I was the one patching up the broken bonds everytime we fought. 
She met a guy, I saw them coming close, I became insecure af, I was skeptical and paranoid. Asked her to stay away, but..... No points for guessing, one day, She simply left me for that guy.

It's been 1.5 years since that. My relationship of 7 years ended in shambles. I've been miserable since then. I've lost each and every ounce of self respect I ever had, cried and begged, calling and texting her to stay and hear me out. 
Worse? "Friends I would die for" never even called to ask for simple "haal chaal".
Too much to ask for ig. Lol.
Drugs and alcohol became my best friends.

I didn't study shit for almost 2 years of my medschool now. How did I pass you ask? 
I barely did. I scored exact passing mark, just using my skills to cheat. 
I am ashamed. I feel like a fraud using taxpayers money. 

Cut to today -
I have no friends, literally zero.
I don't have a single person I could share shit with.
I feel lonely all day and no one gives a damn
I see everyone enjoy life while I consume myself
I've been to rehab 3 times for alcohol abuse
I look miserable. I look homeless.
I feel like a fraud, a fucking quack doctor.
I feel like a cheat and someone who has been cheated by everyone. 
I have a BMI of 31. It's been 1.5 years I've smiled. 
I sit at my bed all day, fucking scrolling or jacking off to p***hub.
I sit here waiting for death to come one day.
I hate myself. I just hate myself.

If you have read this, this far. Please comment down what should I do.
I NEED HELP! I DO!

[UPDATE]:- Actually started cold mailing various people via LinkedIn for research opportunities and actually got into one on the same day! DAMNNNN 💀.

,