SOURCE: Reddit - r/Mumbai
CITY: Mumbai
TITLE: PSA : Airtel Mumbai employees are running a phishing scam
AUTHOR: Capable-Amphibian
DATE: 2023-03-04
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/mumbai/comments/11hrgca/psa_airtel_mumbai_employees_are_running_a/
--- POST TEXT ---

I'm absolutely shaking with anger and fear right now.

A few days ago, I'd emailed Airtel (appellate mumbai • appellate.mumbai@airtel.com
Nodalofficer Mumbai • nodalofficer.mumbai@in.airtel.com) asking about a refund for a failed recharge. This was after the 10 days they'd SMS'd it would take to refund the amount.

What followed was a frustrating amount of canned answers from their employees. With no resolution in sight. They started a customer service request but that's about it.

All of this happened on the email chain that I just told you about. They are encrypted and I'm reasonably certain that my phone and my computer are not hacked or have malware (I'm a paranoid person, and I absolutely take care of ensuring security of my devices) 

Today I received a call from phone number +919330699541 telling me they're from airtel customer support and that if I need a refund I need to follow a few steps (Red Flag 1). Intrigued, I asked them what these steps were. They asked me to download an app from the Play Store called "Quick Support"(Red Flag 2 : TeamViewer Quick Support App instead of some internal Airtel Support app). 

Anyone who looks it up will know it's a phishing app - since it replicates the screen of the user remotely to another device.

I politely tell them that it's upto them to refund my amount and I'm not willing to follow any steps, since a bank transfer is their responsibility.

They started abusing me. (Red flag 3)

I quickly ended the call.

Now, here's the interesting part - I'd only emailed the Nodal Officer and the Appellate Authority of Airtel (I'd cc'd them since I was contemplating a legal complaint against Airtel before the National Consumer Forum). They were the only ones with access to the information the phishers had - about refund, and the Order ID which had failed.

There is no way for this to have been public. Airtel's own employees are leaking private, confidential information to phishers presumably for their side business of scamming Airtel customers.

I'm beyond horrified to know that my private information is being leaked. By an MNC and its employees. At the moment, I'm unsure of how to proceed. I still haven't got my refund, and the deadline I'd given them to refund has passed.

What legal steps can I take against Airtel? I want to take punitive steps for the harrasment I've faced and the uncalled for phishing calls with my private information. I'm no longer just going to be satisfied with a refund. I want no one else to face this bullshit. If you have any information to share, please do let me know. Obviously the National Consumer Forum is still in the mix - I wonder if I can also share this phishing attempt with them (sadly I haven't recorded the call, and so I do not have the proof which may be required).

Edit : Update 1-Someone from their team in Gurgaon reached out to me via a phone call (I'd emailed a higher up - I believe their CEO and their previous acting - CEO ). I'd attached the evidence and asked them pointedly about their privacy policies and whether they're in breach of contract and trust - as I believe them to be. While I've asked them to verify their number through their official email address, I'm yet to get this verification, although they've been calling me about it - I refused to take their calls, since I would like an official paper trail.