SOURCE: Reddit - r/Pune
CITY: Pune
TITLE: B.E biotech at Sinhagad or BAMS in Pvt Pune college?
AUTHOR: Adventurous_Cut6060
DATE: 2024-06-13
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/pune/comments/1deuufc/be_biotech_at_sinhagad_or_bams_in_pvt_pune_college/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hello punekars, I 21F gave Neet 2024 which was my 4th attempt. Scored decent marks to get mbbs but the rank inflation has other plans. I have finally came down upon two options for potential careers after researching and discussing with family. 

1) Take admission in B. E Biotech and completely change my stream from med to engg. I had pcm in 12th. Gave CET this year and night get enough percentile to get this college. My plan further after this engg would be to either get into masters in some specialized domain like Bioinformatics or Molecular Biology or MPH/MHA (from abroad or India) or Do MBA (Healthcare) heavily leaning towards MBA. 

Can anyone from any of these domains give me advice regarding these choices, are they viable for a stable career in the future? 
I have a gap of 3 years from the last time I studied mathematics but I can learn if I take up classes and practice more. Would maths cause a lot of hindernace in Engg exams? 
Is Sinhagad college good? 
My parents might also push me for govt exam preparation if I get into engineering, so I have to keep that in mind too. 

2) Take up BAMS (Ayurved) in the Hadapsar college (I might get it from my rank as per last year) 
I had taken up Bams earlier but left it to prepare for mbbs again but this years scam fucked everything up. I don't have it in me to give this exam again and I am getting second thoughts as though it's not for me since I am losing the seat by 5-10 marks since last 2 years. (This year I have no idea about the scenario)

What is the scope of Bams graduates in Pune? Any bams grads who have any advices for pursuing it in Pune and know about its future, Is the Sanskrit/Ayurved part as quack and pseudoscience as people make it out to be ? . Can they practise allopathy and only be allowed to assist in hospitals like physian assistant etc? Can I pursue MBA in healthcare after bams? 

I know the options I have given are not at all similar but these are what I have finalized after days of researching. I am really at a rock bottom place. currently, I just want to get into a course and give my all to make it good in life. 

Would appreciate anyone's 2 cents to my issue. Thankyou. 
And yes I am considering only Pune for taking up admissions since my city doesn't have good colleges of both options and I might not get in.