SOURCE: Reddit - r/Jabalpur
CITY: Jabalpur
TITLE: Piyush Mishra - Ghaat Festival
AUTHOR: Cheap_Ad_2748
DATE: 2025-01-23
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Jabalpur/comments/1i892mu/piyush_mishra_ghaat_festival/
--- POST TEXT ---

Bhai log what a darn scam this Ghaat festival is! I did not expect this to be such a scam. Piyush Mishra's band, Ballimaran, did show up. Nishant, from Ballimaran, was present on the stage and was involved in setting up everything. Piyush Ji's harmonium was placed on the main podium. Suddenly, everyone from Ballimaran vanished off from the stage; and, so did the harmonium. Those who follow Piyush Mishra must be aware he is always seen with the harmonium while performing on the stage.
Event was due to start at 6 PM. However, entry to the event was delayed by half an hour and was allowed in at 6:30 PM. We sat there for almost 4 hours before Piyush shared a story on his official instagram handle. Nobody showed up from the Organisers side. There was this one person, among the performing artists, came on the stage to renew the event but crowd was frustrated and did not let that happen. Had it not been done then they would have made the performance and would not have to refund the ticket price.
Seating is not good at all. Those tent wala plastic chair is what you will get if you pay 2.5K. Chairs are uncomfortable. However, seating position to stage visibility is good.
Food is pretty much the only good thing. Chhole and naan was the silver lining. Coffee is also good as well. Price is good.
All of this is survivable iff band shows up to perform.

Sunil Grover also never showed up.

Total disappointment.

Please take care if you are going.

Those who have not booked the tickets: Please make sure you are spending your money right.

There is obviously a huge delay to start the event. Rahgir one (happened on day one) was delayed as well. Today was the second day of Ghaat festival.

There won't be any organisers present to help with your questions.

Light and sound vendors' dues have not been cleared either. They only told this.