SOURCE: Reddit - r/Nagpur
CITY: Nagpur
TITLE: HCL TECHBEE is a SCAM. Please do not ruin your life by joining this Program. (DETAILED PERSONAL EXPERIENCE)
AUTHOR: fuckthemcorporations
DATE: 2023-04-23
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/nagpur/comments/12vt21c/hcl_techbee_is_a_scam_please_do_not_ruin_your/
--- POST TEXT ---

TL;DR : A Scam program made by corporate assholes to ruin the lives of 12th pass outs by promising them "jobs" and "Salary", But in reality they just want cheap slave labor.

If you are currently studying in 12th standard If you are a 12th pass out, You or your parents might have heard of this program, and might have searched for some questions like; Is HCL Techbee a scam ? Is HCL Techbee good for the future ? HCL Techbee or Btech ? Should I join HCL Techbee after 12th ?.

Well, for your own good, PLEASE DO NOT JOIN THIS PROGRAM. I'm telling this from my own experience and from my bottom of my heart, DO NOT RUIN YOUR LIFE BY JOINING THIS GODFORSAKEN PROGRAM.

This is going to be a long post(Please fully read it). And I will convey how this program works with every single detail that you need to know and I will convince you not to join. (PERSONAL STORY AT THE END)

These GREEDY Corporations don't care about you or your life. They just want to make money by using you. This program is the prime example of that, made by some middle aged fools with midlife crisis, who wants to take out their frustrations on you by dragging you through this hell, and making a profit out of it on the way. These cunning rascals will promise you many big things, but you will only realize that they were too good to be true once they make you sign twisted agreements with many strings attached. If you join this program there is no backing out without losing all your money, and the agreements and bonds will make sure that you stay with this company for 7yrs. If any medical issues arise or if you want to drop out of this program, your money along with the years you spent will be gone. They will not give you any certifications or anything if you back out, and they surely will not give you any leave for any medical issues. Broke your leg and can't come to office? Well, too bad, they will make sure that you exit from this program, by making it your fault.

If you have money to spare and years to waste, go for it.

Then comes Stipend that they promised, NO they will not give you STIPEND in the training period, They will only give it to you after you complete the most challenging exam that the tutors who teach don't even know the answers for. They deliberately do this to make sure you lose the exams to scam you out of your money. Again, by making it your fault. So the only way to pass is to cheat by using the questions from senior batches that circulate around the WhatsApp groups. Its even worse if you have nobody to send you these questions. Lets say you pass this exam, they will give you 9000 per month(sometimes 6000) (never will they pay you 10k) and "this so-called stipend is your money that you pay when you join the program as fee" (Rs. 1,18,000) and will give it to you each month after tax. ( How's that, Pretty Big Brain move right?)

They will also make you do slave labor for cheap so they can earn profit without recruiting graduates, as they have to be paid more. So they use you to do the midnight shifts and shifts at inconvenient timings with the promise of giving you a guaranteed job. You will work for them from Monday to Friday from 9AM to 6PM and in the weekend for 9 hours for your degree course, in which you are left with no time for yourself. Most of the Managers will act as if they own you and act superior, and the ones who acts like this doesn't even have basic communication skills or literacy. Now you might be thinking that why nobody else who joined this program is complaining about these things, Well, let me tell you why, Its because they are scared of losing their "job", They are supposed to suck it up and not voice their concerns. These corporations always wins no matter what, you are just a disposable paper cup for them that they can throw away after their use. So its best to just avoid them especially when they make you sign bonds which can be broken if you can pay 2 lacks. (again making money by ripping you off)

PERSONAL STORY

I heard of this program as I was searching for colleges to join, my parents found their advertisement on the newspaper ( they are the easier targets) and told me to take a look into it and said to me that it looks like a great program as I will be guaranteed to get a job after the completion of the program. So I searched on Quora, Reddit, and YouTube. At the time when I was searching, there were not many reviews about it, mostly the reviews were the ones featured on some educational websites (that HCL paid to show their ads for their program, obviously!!!). BUT then I saw some reviews that were some huge RED FLAGS written by the ones who joined the program, and I chose to ignore them and thought to myself that it wouldn't be that bad, as my parents told me that it sounded good. MY. BIG. MISTAKE. I should've listened to those reviews found on Quora and those Comments on YouTube.

So I registered for the program and passed the Entrance Test and the Interview, Which was relatively super easy compared to what was coming next, It was easy because they wanted more people to join, so the questions were simple and the guy who conducted interview didn't care if the answer given by us is right or wrong (As I gave mostly wrong answers). In short, if you register for their program you are basically in. (I don't know if this is applicable nowadays). Then they told me to wait as they were completing my profile. They will ask for a bank account, pan card , Aadhaar card, passport, and many more. They will also make you take pictures of your house and your neighborhood for their Background verification process which is shady AF in my opinion.( I know some companies do it, But it didn't sit well with me.)

For the Next 2 months I was sitting at home doing nothing while my friends joined college.

The classes start online and they made me pay Rs 1,18,000 as fee. They will also give you an option to take a loan for this program through Axis bank. That is also another hidden scamming tactic. They tie up with the bank to give you the loan on exorbitant interest rates. And these so-called sessions starts at 9AM and goes till 6PM (sometimes to 7PM). You will get depression guaranteed. You will have no social life and you will lose out on the college-life (which you will only get once, even if you are an introvert).

(The training program is 1 year. The first 3 months is just classes for basic computer knowledge and the next 3 or 6 months is the "specialized" training that depends on what you get. There are some types or branches for the 1st year of training. INFRA, APPS, Linux? and windows are the ones I know. Infra is networking based, they will give you training for 3 months on some CCNA stuff and the internship if for like 6 months. APPS is for 6 months, I think they teach you like many different coding languages and internship is only for 3 months. You don't even get to choose the type that you like. They just choose it for you, depending on the supply they need for the slave labor. Every week there is a stupid quiz to show your parents that they are teaching you well. The "tutor" just reads the PowerPoint slides and byhearts the lab exercises, and just shows it to you. The teaching is also very mediocre, The tutor is just there for the money and don't care if you understand the stuff. Basically forcing you cheat for the exams to pass, As the exams are super tough compared to the exam at the time of joining the program, and if you don't pass, your money is poof, gone.

This is where they are successful in scamming you, They want want you to lose on exams after you pay the fee.)

For the next 3 months the training continues.

The Training comes to an end and the exam that determines if your money is gone is here. As always, everyone cheats (no other way around) and pass. Then for the next 3 months we were just sitting at home doing nothing because the said internship was supposed to happen. But nothing happened because there were many students who qualified and they were overwhelmed by that.

After 3 months we were all slowly allocated to a project for training.

If you completed their training period of 1 yr and passed the exam. They will refer you to make you say good words about their program to the unsuspecting candidates who are thinking of joining the program. They will give two options for a degree for you to join. BCA and BSc. And at the time of joining the recruiter may give many false promises about higher studies also. But only after you join this program you will know the truth that YOU have to PAY for the degree courses from YOUR OWN POCKET on top of the fee. I think They will give you some some waiver. But you will have to pay 25k each semester, that too for a distance degree online.

And after 1yr of training they will give you an employee position as a customer support helper and would make you work at inconvenient hours to make the most out of you. Oh and they will pay you 16k or something based on your location, Which are Peanuts compared to the work they make you to do and keep in mind that you have to pay rent if you are from another state and also for the food and all utilities. If you think that 16k is a good amount for an 18yr old, then you are very very wrong, its just not worth it for what you are sacrificing.(read the post again to understand)

In my case I had to ask for some time off because I was diagnosed with a severe infection in my leg, and the doctors advised me to rest and explicitly told me not to travel anywhere and to take a good rest otherwise it would be bad. And you know what these f\*ckers at HCL told me, I'm of no use if I can't come to the office and told me to exit. (YES a manager told me that through a WhatsApp call). I mean, he could've been more professional and less of a bitch. I knew at that moment that I lost 2 years of my life and my money. I asked him a lot to give me some more time to heal, But he didn't. Then another guy from HR told me if I wanted to continue here I need go through the training and pay the fee again.(Basically forcing me to exit on my own, so that they could say that I exited on my own will, and don't have to give my money back. Hence, making it my fault.) Mind you, I completed the training once.

So, Basically, my 2 years of life is down the drain and I don't even have any certification and qualifications. All thanks to this fu\*king program.

So think about it twice and ask yourself again before joining this ripoff program. I would strongly advice you not to join and save yourself and join a college instead, because that's where you will make memories, not here. Here you will only lose your braincells interacting with these posers.

This is my genuine request NOT to join this program. They are ruining the future generations just for their profits.

So please, Share this post to group chats, or to anybody who is planning to join this program.

Comment or DM anything that you want to know and I would be happy to help.

Also please UPVOTE this post so that everyone can be aware of their scummy tactics and so that nobody in the future gets trapped by them.