SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kolkata
CITY: Kolkata
TITLE: Is this a potential money scam? 
AUTHOR: ThrowRaWhoreee
DATE: 2024-12-20
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/kolkata/comments/1hinebn/is_this_a_potential_money_scam/
--- POST TEXT ---

Idk if I’m using the correct flair.

Okay, so I come from a lower-middle-class family. My family is in a lot of debt ( approximately 10 lakhs). We have decided to sell our house and move to an apartment this coming year. 

Today, I got a call from a friend who's not very close and we haven't spoken for quite some time. He called me to tell me that he wanted to invest 15 lakhs so he decided to loan that money to someone for 5 years at 2% interest. So he asked me if I could get him a potential party who would take that. 

Now, we are really in need of money. We thought we could use the offer. My mother spoke with him and said that he would make the contract once we confirm. Ok very well. Now here comes the twisted part. He said that he wants the advance of 3 months which would be around 1lakh and we wants that money in cash or upi before he deposits the loaned amount. 

Now my mother asked him if he could just deduct the money from the loaned amount itself, he disagreed saying no aunty I can’t do that. You can just take the money from somebody else for a few hours and give it to them once the loaned money is credited. 
My mother even told him that I would fund transfer you instantly once the money is credited but he refused to agree.

Ebar byapar ta hochhe, seh kal kolkata theke na hoy eshe amar hometown sokal sokal contract kore shb kore nebe kintu porshu din seh haryana paliye jachhe. 
Seh bar bar amake maa ke bollo je aunty tumi 1hr er jonne out of good will karor theke manage kore nao, diye tumi taka ta peyegele tader return kore debe. Jokhon bola holo je taka ta cheque e dewa jabe ki na, bollo cheque na, sudhu cash ba upi. Egulo shb contract e lekha thakbe, tumi kono lawyer diye check koriye nio. 

Amar baba shune “bokachoda peyechhe naki” shob e bole dilo, ma er ph speaker e chhilo. 

Toh fraud e toh eta?