SOURCE: Reddit - r/Pune
CITY: Pune
TITLE: Dating scam is Alive
AUTHOR: ritz1986
DATE: 2024-04-30
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/pune/comments/1cgzlma/dating_scam_is_alive/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hey guys, (bit long please bear with me)

The dating scam nonsense seems still to be prevalent.. matches online, she said was a student and likes to party.. was not very regular with replies and when she did hardly said anything much. Today suddenly msgd and when I asked said bad day(family issues) and am I up for a drink. I was like chalo let's give it a shot.. asked her what's the plan she said she lives in KP and go out. I tried the lete meet at a cafe but she din reply for that. 
So finally when I asked she sent the location for a society in KP. I said ok will pick u from der.
Luckily it wasn't to far from my place and she asked me shud we meet someplace directly ( already started smelling something rotten here). 
I said it's fine I will pick you up and then we can decide on a place.
Two mins away from her place she asked me where I was and when I said just reaching ur place she again asked me shud we meet some place directly l(red flag again)
I said I'm just entering ur society let's meet up. She doesn't respond. So I ask her u seem to hv some place in mind , where u wanna meet. She was like send me ur live location and all that.
Finally she said let's meet at kapila matrix it's nearby. I was like ok. There was traffic so took me abt 10 mins more.. meanwhile she kept calling me. Where ru, shud i wait downstairs or shall I go up. Finally on her third call I said fine go up n let me know where I shud come.
She mentioned metro bar and lounge.
Now on reddit I have read abt the opus lounge in baner scam, so I start searching online for this place but don't find anything. From outside the building itself looks old and shady.. but as i entered the building so lots of cars, couples and females there.
I was like damn seems I hit the jackpot. Gorgeous girl and not a scam. 
But then as I go to the floor of the lounge I hear music from the upper floors but not much here. I don't see anyone at the outside reception table. I open the door and look inside and it's like a silent movie.. no one der, pretty much a dead place.
I realised mera khat Gaya.🤦
So a girl who said she like to club and party and drink is sitting in a dead ass place with no vibe at all. I don't enter but soon I see some big bouncers der.
I text her saying I'm not getting good vibes let's go to the upper floor which seems more happening. She was like bro's frnds place can't go. I said westin has a nice club she is like parents are well known in most places so let's go someother time. I ordered pizza let's meet here.
So she out at 11 in a shady place is not a issue, but Westin and all her parents have contacts.
Man what is wrong with such females 
I'm decent looking, pretty well earning person, who can definitely spend money on a nice girl and keep her happy. Why do girls hv to pull this crap for a few bucks. (Sorry to the genuine ones) But shit like dis is def gonna make it hard for the good ones to get good guys 
So in short plz be careful guys. I truly believe I doged a bullet. Metro lounge bar(hope they dont come after me). I have her bumble pics but since I did not meet her i don't knw if it's her or someone real and don't wish to risk showing their pics.she said her name was kavya, but the online account just had K. Din give any other info.
Be safe guys. I genuinely hope we find some nice real girls not trying to scam us..