SOURCE: Reddit - r/Chennai
CITY: Chennai
TITLE: A new type of scam
AUTHOR: Popspeye
DATE: 2023-08-07
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/15ke8s1/a_new_type_of_scam/
--- POST TEXT ---

I order food thro swiggy app few times a week. I have placed lots of orders with different bill values ranging from 200s, 400s, 500s 700s or even more than 1000 a few times depending on the occasion. Likewise I ordered dinner last Friday thro swiggy and paid using debit card. Luckily this order was around 200. The payment was successful and order was confirmed. The amount was debited from my account. 
The delivery person assigned was a woman ( don't wanna specify the name). A few minutes before the delivery, a woman called me claiming to be swiggy customer care in Tamil saying my payment failed due to some server problem and the amount would be refunded. She asked if I could pay with cash or Gpay. I said ok and ended the call. After 2 minutes of the call, I got a call from the delivery person asking for location. When I spoke, it was a man.I didn't think of it much because different person delivering has happened in the past. I got the food and the guy kept asking if was paying cash or Gpay. I paid with cash. When I checked for refund, it wasn't initiated. So I contacted the customer care and asked about it. They said my payment was successful. That's the moment I realised that I was cheated cunningly. The woman &amp; the man were a team in this. After a long proces with the customer care and safety team of swiggy, the refund amount has been initiated today which is why I'm a little relieved now.
I would like someone to bring this type of scam to the public's attention. If someone could spread it around in Facebook and Twitter it would be better cause I don't use facebook and twitter. Thanks.

Edit: Actually the executive from the swiggy safety team I spoke to told me that Swiggy has a zero tolerance towards the issue with another person delivering the order other than the assigned person. That has happened to me many times in the past. Like, a man delivering instead of the assigned woman, a college/school kids delivering instead of an older assigned person. I've never raised a complaint regarding that because I thought it wasn't a problem. Maybe we should all raise complaints in the future with this different delivery person thing too.