SOURCE: Reddit - r/Hyderabad
CITY: Hyderabad
TITLE: 🚨 Very Urgent ! 🚨 Biggest Scam in Hyderabad.
AUTHOR: Scary-Expression-540
DATE: 2025-02-13
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1iomeiq/very_urgent_biggest_scam_in_hyderabad/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hello all ! Hope you’re doing well ! 

This incident happened to my frnd and can happen to you also. Please upvote this post so that it'll reach many!

I’ll tell you clearly with neat screenplay! ( please bear with me ).

——————

Date : 12/02/2025 wed, Time: 8:30 AM

Characters: A(my frnd), B(me).

(I got a phone call from A around 8:30 Am- i was sleeping in my pg &amp; woke up by the call).

A: helloo mawa! 

B: hello tell me ra , why did you call me this early ?

A: rey mawa i need one 6k very urgently ra, i'll give you within 1hr

B: what's so urgnt ra , that too this early ? shall i come ? where are you ra ?

A: no need ra, nothing serious , just send me 5k money that's it !

B: is everything fine mawa ?

A: Everything is fine mawa, can you please send me 5k a bit fast 

B: okay check phonepe, sent it .

A: thanks mama bye !

(Time: 9:06AM- A Comes to my room after 36 minutes, with a dull and weak posture) 

B: what's breakfast for today ?, what happend ra why are you so dull ?, oh i forgot to ask, why did you 5k this early what's the matter, you didn't tell me in call ?

A: (keeps silent and looking at floor sitting on bed)

B: rey is everything allright ? what happened ra …

A: nothing happened ra , i'll give you your 5k a bit late maybe 2 months after would that be fine for you ? 

B: eh i didn't even ask money, i'm only asking what was the reason 

A: Leave it ra... 

B: arey you are hiding something, i'll beat your a\*\*off if you don't tell what happened!

A: (keeps silent)

B: eh tell me ra , stupid !

A: adhee .. i've lost the money ra…

B: rey rey how did you lost the money ra, i've sent you phonepe right how did you lost the money ra ?…

Rey tell me exactly what has happened …

Title: “ROLL MUTTU CASH PATTU”

My frnd tells his POV: 

( Date : 12/02/2025 wed, Time: 8:20, i was going to meet my frnd who’s in banjarahills, so I’m walking to kothaguda busstop to board 127k bus. 

Just 3 meters before busstop, there was a crowd of 8-9 members surrounded infront of a person who is sitting on a 3 legged chair(lets say Scammer1 -S1), 

infront of him there’s one more chair, more like a mini table, so there’s he’s playing some game.

I had no interest in it. Just to see what was happening there i just stopped there and started to observe the game and people, how are they playing like that.

There is a big guy (lets say G1) who was asking the S1 with a High base voice "bro, if we won the money, we can walkout freely at any point right ?". He asked S1 same question 3 times to confirm.

The game was simple there are 12 paper rolls among them there is one paper roll which is written “1” with big text inside it. 

So he shows it to the viewers and places it in the middle of the table and mixes them ( he makes it easy to guess and even a kid can take out the real roll) 

i have my eyes on the real roll, so a guy right beside me(say Guy2- G2) keeps 500 note on the table and picks up the wrong one, and loses his 500.

(I was like shit that’s wrong one, that was so easy) next time same guy who lost his 500 note pulls another note from his pocket and placed on the table,

this time i told him the correct roll, so he picked the same and won 500 rupees. He gave shakehand and said thanks to me.

Now I’m so happy that i know this game and feeling like a master(in this 7 minutes) at this stupid very easy game.

(at this point if i had liquid cash, i would’ve placed the bet). The same guy places 1000 on the table and says "nadhi 1000 , ee annadhi 1000",

which means, "my bet is 1000 and his bet is 1000" (says to S1, pointing a finger at me, even though there was only 1000 on the table now).

before i realise what's happening, within fraction of seconds, the guy who placed bet on himself and me , pulls out the correct roll.

G2 won 1000, collects his 1000 from S1, this time he tells me , "you have also won 1000, which i placed on you, now ask him(S1) your 1000". i got tempted here and asked S1 to give me my 1000.

A: anna give me 1000 !

(S1 leans his hand to give cash to me, just before i take it he asks me)

S1: do you have cash! if you have cash then only i can give you money , show me proof !

A: yeah i have cash, but in phone pe.

S1: show me proof !

A: (shows proof of 6K)

S1: liquid cash is must, without liquid cash we can't give you money

A: (hesitates a bit) (at this point i should've walkedout, then G2 says)

G2: try if anybody has liquid cash with them and send to their phonepe

A: (asks another guy who's standing left side of me(G3), who was using mobile) anna do you have liquid cash, i'll send you phonepe

G3: how much brother ?

A: just 1000 bro

G3: okay send me 1000 i'll give 1000 hand cash.

A: okay anna, thank you !(gave 1000 to me after i sent 1k to him)

A: (shows 1k cash to S1 and asks) anna look here i have 1k liquid cash now give me my 1k.

S1: one must place the bet , if you win i can give you money.

A: (even at this point i should've walked out but i didn't. and i thought anyhow the game is simple i can win my 1k easily and decided to place bet)

(S1 started the game, i have my eyes focussed on the correct paper roll, i placed the bet 1000 rupees on the table, and selected the paper roll.

Surprise !, it turns out to be the wrong one, now i lost my real 1k. Now i started to panic and my brain isn't braining. to get my real 1k i placed bets again and again.

lost my 6k in this same process. \[even at this point i should've walked out\] at this point that big guy G1 again talks in a High base threatening voice to S1.)

G1: anna , if we win the money we can walkout freely right ?

S1: yes you can !

G1:(says 6k bet on me, without placing liquid cash on the table) "6k on him" (pointing a finger at me and takes correct roll)

A: (didn't talk for few seconds, then G1 says)

G1: bro you've won 6k ask your 6k !

A: (speaks to S1) anna give me my 6k !

S1: (counts 6k cash, all 500 notes and leans his hand to give me 6k, just before i take the money he asks me) do you have cash ?

A: no anna i don't !

S1: then money can't be given to you !

(G1 the big guy suggests me to ask any of my frnds, so i called you in the early morning. after loosing your 6k i was helpless, i wasn't sure what i was thinking)

(then another guy G3 asks S1)

G3: anna can we bet my mobile ?

(at this point i realised they are planning to tempt me to bet my iPhone and i just got scammed)( so i came room silently)

\------------------------------------------------------------------

Similar incident happened to me already two months back at Durgamcheruvumetro station , at image hostpitals street road. (the game I've faced "PENNU PETTU CASH PATTU": [https://youtu.be/yUSQBNmVhQk?si=sBgQs4hvV0YDaPw9](https://youtu.be/yUSQBNmVhQk?si=sBgQs4hvV0YDaPw9) )

) when the incident happened to me two months back i didn't tell anyone to protect my respect. This time i'm sharing in this public platform so that people can get to know.

I asked my frnd to show me the spot, i was shocked when i saw the faces of the people who just scammed my frnd. They are the exact same people who scammed me. 

Today i tried recording the incident, but the big guy G1 noticed me and stopped me recording and forcibly deleted the video ( i recovered it from recently deleted folder).

we observed the game from a distance , we came to know that the 7-8 guys standing around the table , the big guy -G1 and the scammer these all part of this scam, this is a well planned and executed scam.

after few minutes a police officer came, instead of stopping the gambling , I've seen him talking to the Big guy G1 - i'm not sure what was the conversation, but the cop looks that was normal)

Note: we don't want to give police complaint!

Tell us how you would've handled this situation without revealing your identity ?

Please share this to your frnds and upvote this post! 

Thank you so much for your patience. (Kindly ignore my bad english and spelling mistakes)