SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kochi
CITY: Kochi
TITLE: UNICEF/UNESCO Agents trying to get your money. 
AUTHOR: Jon-Bones-Jones_
DATE: 2024-05-15
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kochi/comments/1csmrbx/unicefunesco_agents_trying_to_get_your_money/
--- POST TEXT ---

I've been seeing a lot of UNICEF /UNESCO people on roads, pvr, malls literally everywhere trying to sign you up. 

The money they collect all go into their salaries and their management. Very sure most of the money you donate isnt reaching the needy. 

These people are hired by a few small organization 
 One such is Focus organization which I've seen in coimbatore. 

Here is my experience. 
 They once sent me an email for a walk in interview as a business associate in coimbatore. 

When i arrived, it was a run down building and on the third floor there was a small room and a dirty, office chair where I saw many of the people working there was taking photos wearing a suit that was passed around. 

After the interview they were boasting that they were working with American express, Mercedes etc and you can choose whatever they want. 

Then they made us learn a script in Tamil by heart and practice it. Before that they played loud music and made people dance to bring them to ease. 

After the script you have to repeat it back to the leaders and they correct you in how to adjust the tone to manipulate and get the sympathy of the people. 

Then they make these new hires go with one of their guys into the streets and then started going into shops malls, even colleges and reiterate the script. 

Most funny thing was that they were showing a list of names with performers and there was a guy with the last name Bajaj. The owner of this place Dandu Dinesh said that this guy is from the Bajaj family and has a ton of money, but wanted to do his own business so he came to work with their begging scam. 

They still lie and hire people with fancy names like business associate and that after 2 years they'll help you start your own business and all. 

At the time they were collecting money for SOS organization. But I'm sure a large chunks of the money collected is going into their own pockets as I contacted SOS directly and they confirmed that these guys are taking out huge commissions. 

Focus management was the name of this scam organization.

 Person acting as HR was Divya

Owner was some Dandu Dinesh. 

I quit in the same day and was pissed off. This Dandu even had the nerve to tell me if I'm looking for other jobs, he had contacts with AMEX and all and that he can refer me.

They are scammers. They make money in the name of charity. Nothing less that frauds.

Oh and one more thing. Majority of the staff I saw there were females. I think they're using females to manipulate guys into paying as I myself signed up for this subscription an year later in kerala without knowing it was them. A girl called me and sounded genuine. Said that she was working and is volunteering for the NGO.

I heard that they were looking to expand this thing to every city and later heard that they moved to kerala as well. 

From another post in Bengaluru sub, i got to know that it was again Focus organization that is behind this as well. 

SO BEWARE. AVOID THESE SCAMSTERS. DONATE TO A CHARITY YOU KNOW VERY WELL AND NOT VIA THESE AGENTS.