SOURCE: Reddit - r/Bhubaneswar
CITY: Bhubaneswar
TITLE: I was almost scammed. Be very careful.
AUTHOR: BetterRub5687
DATE: 2024-07-21
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Bhubaneswar/comments/1e837g1/i_was_almost_scammed_be_very_careful/
--- POST TEXT ---

Scammers have gotten so sophisticated it's insane.

I received a call from a robotic voice that told me it's a call from Mumbai high court and if I want to press 1 to accept.

Immediately, hearing the word court I got nervous (I know i shouldn't have been but still, it was an emotional response).

Then they proceeded to tell me my aadhar was used to open an icici bank account that was then used to do illegal transactions.

Immediately I told them that's not possible, my aadhar was never stolen and I've never been out of odisha so something like that happening in mumbai is absurd.

What followed was a 30 minute convo of them "trying to figure out who it might have been."

And I shit you not it was feeling legit. Because they already KNEW MY REAL FULL NAME. They addressed me by it. Then proceeded to ask me where else I've given my aadhar in the last 2 years. 

After 30 minutes of repeatedly asking me I did anything illegal, the guy talking to me asked me for my bank details. 

This is when I was doubtful. I said no. Then I started asking him to verify his identity to me and he sent me this.

Then after minutes of once again telling me over and over again that I'm a suspect, I'm a criminal and my aadhar was used in x, y, z activities and if I don't co-operate they will freeze my bank account: he asks me to get on Skype.

At this point I was sure it was scam bc no police is gonna do that. But anyway, I still get on Skype to see what's gonna happen.

He proceeds to pretend to speak to someone in identity theft department org over intercom (I hear the whole convo, 10/10 acting, walkie-talkie lingo, intercom voice, the whole ordeal. They've gotten so resourceful)

They tell me .. actually my aadhar was used to open not one but 20 bank accounts and used to launder 8.3 million usd. 

At that point I started laughing. Because, sir, if I had 8.3 million usd I would not be speaking to you. I would tell you go cut grass and speak to my lawyer.

He told me I have to transfer all the money I have to RBI department and that they would keep it for 15 minutes for ""verification"" and return to me if they don't find anything. Of course I tell them no and I ask them for their identity verification again.

He then started getting aggressive. Telling me he'd issue and arrest warrant if I don't co-operate and freeze my bank accounts. Lol, sure. I hung up.

He then sent me multiple "arrest warrants" that said things like "arrest her immediately" and "IPC [bunch of numbers] are applied to this suspect" lololol. Pretty much trying to scare me into giving them money. 

So yes, I had a fantastic Saturday. I'm sure similar cases are all over the news. But I had no idea they had so sophisticated bc I live under a rock.