SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: Is helping people good or bad?
AUTHOR: Boring-me-2
DATE: 2024-12-04
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1h6c5ya/is_helping_people_good_or_bad/
--- POST TEXT ---

It’s been a while, once I was going from metro, the station was sector 18 noida. As I drop of the metro a cubby boy of around 16 or 17 drop of with me, he rushed towards me and said “didi I need help my money has been stolen I don’t have any way of going home. I have to take the auto and could you please give me some money. As I will reach home I will ask my parents to send them to you.” I asked him to call his parents to send me some money and I will give him some cash, he said that her mother uses up I she is not at home my father doesn’t use it and no one picking my call..I don’t remember correctly what all bullshit lies he was throwing on me, he said that he will call her mother from phone once if she picked up if she didn’t then I will be having her number and he will send the money or I can call. He called someone there was a woman’s name on true caller and no one picked up. Eventually I thought what if was stuck somewhere like this. And I gave him 200rs. After 2hrs I called back on that number and it was not a valid no. I know that I should have checked my self everything and did some stupidity believing in him but I really he is an innocent person who need help. I was too, young at that time. 
There have been some incidents that make me wonder that the people who are poor or beggars or anything else, shouldn’t be helped.
Once my friend was going somewhere on his bike and at a red light an old man asked for his help that he has to somewhere he was even hurt, his leg was bleeding. So if he could give him a ride to somewhere near. So my friend agreed to do so and after came back. He found his wallet empty around 5000rs were missing. 
Now these are incidents where people are straight out scamming. There are many people roaming around saying that they have to go somewhere and scam the money. They can be anyone a child or an old person. But even the people who are poor or begging aren’t any better there have been so many time really small kids have came to me directly and asks to feed them something, pay for something so that they can eat I am not saying that this is bad I know they are poor but these children are send by there parents. Once I paid for a plate of gol gappa for a kid, and the seller himself said that “don’t pay for them there parents are here and they send them on purpose”. And after noticed them many times asking other peoples and me too to pay so that they can eat. If you pay for something once they will ask for more expensive things. 
I have generally heard people saying that don’t give them money give them food instead but is that also right to do now. Once me and my friend were giving some toffees to these poor kids there parents came running towards us for the toffees. We said that we are giving to the kids, she said “ Hume bhi iske liye chahiye, uske liye chahiye” and they were snatching bunch of toffees from each other and from us. 
I know people will say that they are poor and need things, you have things so you don’t know, I agree with you but some people are not greatfull they are greedy and lazy. They just want things without doing any work. They play victim card of being poor. These are just some things I have told but I have seen so many like these. It feels bad to help these type of people who are there because of their nature and laziness. Everyone is definitely not like that and they are definitely struggling from poverty and major issues but I think we should be more mindful while helping people. 

I am sorry for any grammar mistakes.