SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: Fuck you Delhi and UP wale 
AUTHOR: Nomadic_General
DATE: 2024-08-24
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1f01q2m/fuck_you_delhi_and_up_wale/
--- POST TEXT ---

Why TF do you have to be so greedy and scammy not to mention disrespectful. I hope y'all die eating that pan masala in poverty and filth that you create yourselves.

And fuck OYO.

I have to be in Noida for four days. Today I had to check in. I went to the hotel, the person at the reception said that it'll be 1000 rupees extra for early check-in. I said well okay, in the end, he said it'll be 2000. I, knowing that y'all people are fuckers who want to scam everyone you see, had phone's voice recording on. I asked him if it is written anywhere that this is the amount. He wasn't able to show me and then went away without saying anything, fucking disrespectful. Came after two minutes and said the hotel is fully booked. 

Now I might be wrong but the only reason I can think of is that fucker wanted money.

I called Oyo customer care after I left ( I had to be somewhere), they couldn't reach the hotel because of course they're brats who have 0 respect for any human. Now they said they'll transfer me to some other hotel. But asked me to pay again. Fuckers had the guts to ask me to pay again. They said that the transaction had failed. I mailed them the transaction id and everything. Now they said that is stuck in between. "Beech mai kahi atka hai" and i said i have received system generated confirmation on WhatsApp, how TF is it stuck in between, she said that I'll get the refund in 72 hours. I was in a hurry so I left that call. 

After an hour or so I placed another call because I did not get any confirmation about any refund through text or mail. That lady said that the payment is indeed complete. Okay. She again called that hotel, this time that guy picked up. After talking for like 15 seconds he left the call without saying anything. He did not disconnect, he just left. Like why TF are you guys such fraudsters. "I'll book a different hotel for you" she said. She showed me a few hotels which were a severe downgrade. And i said just refund my fucking money. In the end she said I'll receive a mail regarding that.

 [This](https://imgur.com/f0m84N0) was the mail. Fucking 0 rupees as refund.

At this point I am very very furious. I call once again, this lady tells me that she'll do it, and [this](https://imgur.com/a/hPKmxKX) is what she sent. Now correct me if I am wrong, but this isn't a system generated mail. I am again being scammed aren't i?
I have every conversation on record. Why? Because this is not the first time you people have scammed me. I know you fuckers have lust of scamming and fraud.

You guys don't deserve happiness.

TL:DR fucking tired of you guys scamming and disrespecting every person you see.