SOURCE: Reddit - r/Mumbai
CITY: Mumbai
TITLE: Fleeced by taxi drivers at Dadar railway station
AUTHOR: Revolutionary_Bug365
DATE: 2021-06-02
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/mumbai/comments/nqgish/fleeced_by_taxi_drivers_at_dadar_railway_station/
--- POST TEXT ---

I got fleeced by taxi drivers at Dadar railway station. In a nut shell they asked me to exchange 5 200 rupees notes to 2 500 rupee notes, I have given the amount but he claimed that I gave him 100 rupee notes. And asked for 500 rupee notes again. This when I said I don’t have 500 rupees notes they asked me to deboard the cab as the cab can’t move without 2 five hundred rupee notes.
I have reached Dadar by Konark express which reaches Dadar at 3.30 AM. AC two tire coach was next to the engine so there was a long walk between Dadar station exit from my coach. A taxi driver was waiting at the coach before even I de boarded the train he has been waiting there. He was wearing hand kerchief as a mask. So couldn’t even look at his face properly. As soon as I got down he started asking me questions on where do I have to go and all. I know well enough to not to answer these people but he was relentless and started calling me beti and did emotional drama as why I am not trusting him even after calling me beti. He grabbed my suitcase form my hand and started walking fast. I tried to collect my suitcase many times, I was successful twice, but he was acting like an over sweet uncle and grabbed it back from me. Finally he exited the station and he took me to a taxi parked in the lane slightly faraway form the usual taxis. They kept my luggage in the cab and two more people came to the cab, he said he is not the driver and someone else is. One more person came and acted like he is the owner of the cab and he needs 1000 rupees and the guy paid him 5 200 rupee notes. But he said he needs 2 500 rupee notes he later came to me asking the same. I just wanted the cab to leave as soon as possible so I gave the money. But he said that I gave him 2 100 notes. I was not in a position to argue as well. They were 3 of them and I was alone at midnight. Didn’t want to argue anymore. They asked me to get down and catch another taxi. 

I never thought I could get cheated like this. Once I got back I searched about it and it’s such a common scam. Reporters in independent news articles and testimonies by passengers but this was never even captured by mainstream media. I am posting it here to increase the awareness. 

I really hope such incidents don’t happen to anyone anymore.