SOURCE: Reddit - r/Bengaluru
CITY: Bengaluru
TITLE: Horrifying experience with Bisleri in Bengaluru.
AUTHOR: SeaSerpentLord
DATE: 2025-03-29
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Bengaluru/comments/1jmk628/horrifying_experience_with_bisleri_in_bengaluru/
--- POST TEXT ---

If you are someone who is buying or planning to buy 20 Litre Bisleri jars whether at home or for office please read carefully.

I have long been a customer of Bisleri On Door service. I opted for Bisleri On Door because the jars available in market look counterfeit. Bisleri India has no mechanism to identify fake jars (confirmed with their customer service). 

I had ordered two jars like I do every other week, Bisleri water has posed quality issues earlier as well but what happened today cannot be overlooked. I opened the new jar and the water was straight up bitter so I opened the second jar and to my dismay the water in that jar was also bitter. The interesting part begins here: 
I promptly called the customer service and they asked me a few details and assured me they are on top of this issue. A few minutes later a guy claiming to be from their quality check team called and asked the details on the bottle cap and my address so he can visit and take samples for testing. 
Few hours later two guys come looking like goons wearing slippers and dirty clothes (I am not judging anybody but this guy claims he is Quality Check team member).
Here is how it went:
He got into my house asked for an empty glass and as I went to take the glass he started taking a very good look of my entire house from the inside.
Then he goes on to say (with some sense of relief) I thought you are a Muslim. When I asked what difference does it makes he had no answer. 
Then comes the quality testing both guys filled the glass with the water drank it and acted like everything is fine. The real surprise comes next - he took out a 1 litre TATA water bottle which looked like he picked up from trash enroute to my place and filled it up to the brim with the contaminated water and left. 

Now I feel afraid for the safety of my house and I am left with approx 38 litres of contaminated water in Bisleri jars. 

And if this is the case with Bisleri you can assume what other brands might be doing. In the name of mineral water this could very well be a slow poison that me and thousands of others are consuming everyday by blindly trusting the Bisleri brand! 

Whether you are a PG dweller, hosteller, bachelor, with family believe me it is much better to invest in a good RO than trusting these frauds and cheats if you care for your health and money. 

Do not fall for the trap of delusional convenience. 

TLDR: Bisleri's claims of 90+ quality checks and 10 stage filtering might very well be false advertising. Stay away from 20L jars. QC is trash. Buy RO asap if you are using 20L jars. 

If you have been using Bisleri 20L please share how your experience has been with the service.