SOURCE: Reddit - r/Bhubaneswar
CITY: Bhubaneswar
TITLE: 🚨Guys beware of this OLA 🚨OLA HAS BEEN scam! HACKED!😳
AUTHOR: SeaweedUsual
DATE: 2023-12-03
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Bhubaneswar/comments/189ortz/guys_beware_of_this_ola_ola_has_been_scam_hacked/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hey everyone,

Today I was booking a cab on Ola to go meet my friends at Esplanade Mall. As you can see below, I booked the cab and then called the driver to confirm my pickup.

Within just 1 minute, I received another call on Truecaller. This man told me that he is my driver and he is coming to my location. He told me that he doesn't know my exact pick-up address. I thought this was weird because I just had a call with the driver and he sounded older. I told this guy that I have given the exact pick-up address so he can come and pick me up. He started to ABUSE me saying that I am being rude to him and I should give him the exact address. I cut the call because I was shook with his behaviour. I felt something was off and immediately checked his number on Truecaller. As you can see, he is listed as "Ola Fraud". This man has hacked into Ola server and gets customer details LIVE so he can contact us. I am sure he is part of a group of people who do this in other cities.

Do you know what the worst part is?👇🏻

The original driver who I talked with and Ola had given me notifications that he was coming to pick me up- his details completely vanished.
When I went to the app to cancel the ride as I was so shook after this incident, the driver details were not mentioned anymore. This means that the app is hacked in live time and their data is erased from Ola server to it can not be traced back!

As a woman, I am extremely concerned about my safety and I am shocked that Ola is not being responsible with our information. I have deleted my account in Ola because I don't want random people to have access to my number. I have also tweeted to Ola with these images and I am waiting for them to reply back. Please beware before using Ola!