SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: Met a pure "Dilli vibe wala" Driver ( driver with a Delhi vibe)
AUTHOR: Goku_python
DATE: 2023-03-18
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/11uuzs8/met_a_pure_dilli_vibe_wala_driver_driver_with_a/
--- POST TEXT ---

So, i was chilling with my colleagues in CP and since it was already 8:30 pm, i didn't want to take the pains of commuting by metro, so I ordered a bike ride from one of those apps. 

After two cancelled rides by drivers, this dude in Paharganj accepted the ride. I asked if he will go or not, to which this dude says in most chilled out voice " bhaiya aap tension na lo, aap 15 min ruk sakte ho toh mai aata hu, saath chal lenge, maza aajayega". ( TL: Don't sweat it, if you can wait for 15 min, I'll come and pick you, it'll be fun). 

Now i waited with colleagues until then and then my ride came. Guy seemed like in his late 30s (later confirmed, he was 35+). Now the fun began. 

Dude had a bike some 5-6 years old but the pick up was still good and he was just rashly driving. I told him that "bhaiya aaram se chala lo koi jaldi nai hai." To which he calmed down a bit and started a conversation with me. He asked what i did and what i was doing here in CP. I gave some diplomatic answers after which out of courtesy I asked if he rode all day or just for fun ( given his age i asked those questions). He said that he likes to travel around Delhi and even have gone to Noida Gurgaon late at night. He just loves it. 

I concurred and thought this would be the end of it but some convoy made the traffic cue a bit longer. He then continued that he has been trying to support his family and can drive around all day, through which he earns some 30-35k monthly. 

While now i was feeling sad for him, he quickly turns it around by laughing about his own situation and said that "bhaiya ab mujhse padhai wadai Hui nai aur mujhe bas pasand hai meri bike pe nikal jaana toh Jo bhi opportunity milti hai mai issi se kar rha hu last 15-18 years se. " I asked why doesnt he invest in getting a car and move upwards. He said " mai chala toh lu lekin thok dunga toh dikkat ho jayegi, upar se bike me toh pata lag jaata hai aagey kitna space hai, but car me nai pata lagta." 

I chuckled Mann me hi and said ki koi na wo practice se aa jaata hai. I now eased up a bit about the guy and he happily shared about all sorts of things. It was like two guys just chilling out. 

1. He asked about the kind of businesses he can do with his passion of moving around and bikes. ( If you guys have any suggestions, do let me know too). 

2. Family: talked about how he is being supportive but doesn't want to get married because he doesn't want to ruin someone else's life. Also mentioned about Delhi girls 💀 and lack of investments not allowing him to marry.

3. Delhi girls: i enquired and he said that he meets a lot of good people but also meets married girls who were talking to their boyfriends. He said that he felt bad for the guys. And that "kuch smoke bhi karti hai aur bindaas bolti hai ki tum acchi baatein karte ho, tum bhi smoke karo mere saath."

4. Investments: Now the guy was really curious about this and wanted to know about nitty gritty of things like how ola/Uber works and how much cost it entails. Stock market too. Owning to his fuckups he said " ab mai tehra mehnat karne wala aadmi, ye Bina degree ke kya hi kar lunga" i reassured him that it only takes contacts and quick thinking for business. If he is willing to work toh ho jayega. He said "wo toh mai karlu but acche se idea aa nai rha abhi but karenge pakka."

This made me really appreciate him as he was trying to ask relevant questions and wanted to explore all sorts of earning potential for self. From stock markets, to mithai ka business, shoe reselling and whatnot. On a lighter note, he even talked about a girl saying about scope of earning 5 lakhs per month in insurance business. The dude said "bhaiya mujhe toh laga scam hai, apna number Diya aur bolti ki baat karna mujhse kal, mai sab samjha dungi. maine bhaav hi nai Diya, huh kuch bhi". XD

5. Drugs: while talking about businesses, i said that there are illegal ways too but legal way ke through hi Delhi me enough opportunity hai to earn. He added that "bhai illegal ka toh kya hi bolu, bande Noida se north west aate hai drugs lene ke liye. Ek baar wo vikaspuri ke aagey sunsaan ilaake me negro scooty pe aaya tha, bande bas pudiya leke nikal lete hai mere piche. Meri bohot fatti thi." 

All this was new to me as i always wanted to know how this stuff worked. Overall my ride was only for 40 min, we reached our destination by 9:15 pm but we kept talking for another 45-50 min after that. We exchanged numbers and i said that if i get something I'll let him know. 

It was a refreshing experience to say the least as i learnt about the struggles of a normal dude in this city, but the way this dude was handling it jovially was something i would like to inculcate in my life too. I tend to forget the priviledges I have but such instances make me appreciate them. I hope you guys have a goodnight. Cheers.