SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: PG Fraud in South Delhi(ps: I NEED HELP!!)
AUTHOR: Fun_Baseball_4562
DATE: 2023-09-09
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/16e0zz6/pg_fraud_in_south_delhips_i_need_help/
--- POST TEXT ---

Guys,19F here…I shifted to a PG in mid june at Vinobapuri particularly Lajpat Nagar 4, The owner(F) collected two months rent(13k) in advance in the name of security fees,saying if I will leave the PG and inform the owner one month prior she will not take the upcoming month rent from me and will adjust the rent in security fee.After living there for 1.5 months ,I had to leave the PG overnight due to some medical concerns,not knowing that I will not return to the PG to live there anymore.When I left the PG I immediately informed her that I have left the PG leaving behind my belongings. She said in a very sugary tone that it is okay and I can stay here for my treatment as long as I want(between this we used to talk and she NEVER mentioned that I will have to move my stuff otherwise she will do this to me) after my medical condition got better..now four days back I moved my stuff from the PG.

Today,when I asked her to return me the security money she said that my second month got over in mid August and from the day my second month got over till the day i.e. today I asked her for the money and she said that she will NOT RETURN me the money by making the excuse that the security fee got adjusted from mid August to this day cause I had kept my belongings at her place.when we used to talk from the day I left her PG in between our conversations after one week of leaving the PG i informed her that I will not be coming back she raised no objections and I trusted her that she will not make chaos. Never did she mention that I will have to remove my stuff otherwise she will do this, my mistake is that I feel I should have said to her that she can put the bed on rent. 

Guys I gave her the rent&amp;I had paid extra for the gas
600/- and laundry 500/- for the august month..due to my emergency I only used the gas once and I am not even asking her for the gas money I am asking for my security deposit.

Can she hold my money ? 
Should I contact police?
What should I do? 
Please HELP

For knowing the exact location of scam kindly DM!!