SOURCE: Reddit - r/Chennai
CITY: Chennai
TITLE: Apartment available for Rent near Mambakkam
AUTHOR: lavanyadeepak
DATE: 2023-06-29
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/14lwc9o/apartment_available_for_rent_near_mambakkam/
--- POST TEXT ---

A friend of mine shared an information about a potential availability in their community. A while ago I got an opportunity discuss with some of their community management and we introduced a few distinct processes to tide over the regular confusions over monthly maintenance collections etc. 

I am glad that I got an opportunity help with another initiative in safe and hassle-free renting that they can use for any of the apartments in the community to rent the same as per the need. I hence thought would share this template here and open to refinement so that we can help assist the Law Enforcement to ensure the city is free from criminals intruding into it. 

With many people these days consider to invest in Real Estate and rent out the additional property I just thought of sharing this information with everyone. This questionairre might need to be filled by the individual house owner before sharing a copy with the community team along with other platforms as per their interest. 

My recommendation is to maintain all these per apartment in their community along with annexures in a shared storage with pertinent offline backups as much necessary.

&amp;#x200B;

1. Number of Bed Rooms: n
2. Number of Balconies Available: n
3. Number of Baths Available: n
4. Lofts Available: Yes/No
5. Lockers Available: Yes/No
6. Financials
 1. Monthly Rental (including any applicable negotiability)
 2. Security Deposit clauses (including any applicable negotiability)
 3. Monthly Maintenance 
 4. Due dates for (6), (7) and (8) clarified in the Rental Agreement
 5. Policy regarding Utility Bills including the Full and Final Settlement at the time of vacating the apartment
 6. Policy regarding Damage Cover and normal Wear/Tear
7. Availability of Internet Connectivity in the Area: (List the Providers categorizing it as Wired and Wireless Providers)
8. Security of the Community
 1. Is Community Gated?
 2. Is there a CCTV surveillance in the community?
9. What type of vehicle parking available in the community?
10. Mandatory background verification of residents before Move-In 
11. Diet Preference: 
 1. Vegetarian
 2. Meat
12. Clarify policies on Partying in Community if any (including availability of Community Halls nearby)
13. Clarify policies on Smoking within the Apartment and/or within the community premises
14. Clarify policies on Drinking within the Apartment and/or within the community premises and/or availability of nearest bars.
15. Considering the recent scams in Real Estate particularly on platforms like OLX where photos of one property being used to cheat others I asked them to include this statement "Restrict asking more photos of the apartment and/or community other than posted already. You can register your intent to visit with sufficient documentation by requesting a residency invite from the community manager. "
16. Additionally I had reiterated the need for the following in Residency form "When approaching for rent please be ensured you have sufficient documentation for background verification to complete because move-in can not happen without a positive report from the agency. "
17. Whether the owner would entertain a Lease model or prefer month to month rental basis?
18. Religious Beliefs
 1. This could be a controversial topic I admit but being in the community it is imperative that these information is recorded for security reasons. 
 2. Clarify policies on Atheist ideologists
19. Professions
 1. Clarify policies on PEP (Politically Exposed Persons) who want to rent out the apartment