SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: New Scam Unlocked: Cash against UPI at liquor shops in Ghaziabad 
AUTHOR: goRobust
DATE: 2024-08-19
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1evunny/new_scam_unlocked_cash_against_upi_at_liquor/
--- POST TEXT ---

My friend got scammed once, but figured it out during the second time.

The first time happened at the Indirapuram liquor shop near Kala Patthar Road on Meerut Expressway service Lane- Infront of the underpass. We were too late to realise so we let it go.

Last week it happened again, the liquor shop in Windsor Street.

The counter guy asked my friend for 3k UPI against which he told my friend he will pay in cash. 
My friend did the UPI, got the amount in cash in 100 rupee denominations. He counted the notes, they were 29 notes. Informed the guy, he asked my friend to count again. It was 29 only. The guy asked my friend to give the money to him to count. 
Once my friend gave him, he counted the money below the table, away from visibility of my friend. 
In the end he said yes you are right it’s 29, added a hundred rupee note and gave it to my friend. My friend happy of him accepting his mistake, did not count the money again and kept it in wallet. Mind you it was a Saturday evening and there was rush at the shop so every one wants to complete their business there as soon as possible to get out of the rush.

After coming back to the car, my friend recounted the notes and to his surprise it was 2100 rupees only!!!!!

We recalled the similar incident that happened last time so it was confirmed this is a legit scam being run by these shops. We decided to confront them.
As soon as we reached the counter and informed the guy that you have given only 2100 rupees, he immediately said bhaiya ha aapne ye counter par cash chor diya tha, kya bhaiya aap aise counter par chor gaye abhi koi utha leta toh ?”. They knew they did not want a mess while there are so many customers at the counter. 

Beware! 
Do not help anyone with UPI against cash. If you do count the notes properly and count them every time it comes into your hand from someone else’s hand, no matter if you had counted it earlier.

Please spread this !!