SOURCE: Reddit - r/Bengaluru
CITY: Bengaluru
TITLE: My first ever bad experience from uber ! Wat next ?
AUTHOR: Successful_Sun5483
DATE: 2025-04-13
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Bengaluru/comments/1jy27o6/my_first_ever_bad_experience_from_uber_wat_next/
--- POST TEXT ---

Uber harassment !

I booked an uber from Kempegowda International Airport T1 to my place, returning from native in a morning flight.
I booked Uber go , gave him pin ( a guy in late 20’s or early thirties).

He told me U put destination as airport only I will cancel and book again , but I remember putting my destination however I didn’t argue as I checked his screen it didn’t show my destination and some amount of 65 Rs showed on screen ( I still don’t know how )

Then the uber assistance guy came for help and he did something on drivers screen and then my destination showed and amount was 326 , but he told sometimes different payment will come after the ride just pay that and I was like “ yea I will “

Now the ride was for about 50 mins , I was really tired and wanted to take a nap but idk y I had a bad feeling abt this guy so tried to stay awake, after 2 mins this guy stopped vehicle bought something from nearby shop and continued journey.
He stared chewing pan masala or something idk exactly, I got the smell and weird slurping sounds plus he was singing loudly. 
I didn’t say anything just kept scrolling on my phone thinking maybe he’s tired or it’s his habit he can’t stop. 

Now the final part I reached my place , app showed ‘ my name owes you 796 Rs’ 
He told I told u rt the amount will change I was like “yea it’s fine I will pay 
Pls show QR code “as I tried to pay error msg showed his upi daily limit exhausted .

I went to him again showed this msg , then I asked if there’s a phone number I will pay in that ,Now due to network connectivity I was not able to complete the payment , So at that exact moment itself I called my friend and asked him to pay to the same number , He did it right away send me ss also then I asked the driver u got it rt ?
He told yes I got the msg

Now I reached my room and this guy is calling me after 5 minutes , multiple times telling payment didn’t come , he got a fake msg 
I was like bhai screenshot also u saw and u are telling me this. 
He didn’t end the ride , ride was still on when I checked the app.

Then how was he able to get the final amount? 
He called me again asking me to come down again with the ss
I went again 
Then he started thrashing very rudely in hindi telling it’s a fake message I will call the police 
I was really irritated by this time and showed screenshot he’s like “this is also fake only”
I lost my cool and told” u call the police 
U want me to pay again? U want to scam me ?
U think I’m an idiot ? 
Go check ur bank statement and show me the statement , I asked him to check his gpay and phone pay transactions.he denies telling same sentence I didn’t get , I didn’t get 
This continued for 10 minutes 
And I saw him checking his gpay and he took the car and went without saying anything.
I called him thru app but he didn’t pick and ended the ride ( the actual ride ended by 11.20 and I payed by 11.24) he closed the ride by 12.00

My whole day is ruined , I got called a fraud , abused verbally after sitting thru an unprofessional ride of around an hour without even complaining!

Now since he knows my place is he gonna come back and harass me again?
Wat can I do abt this bad ride ?