SOURCE: Reddit - r/Nagpur
CITY: Nagpur
TITLE: Almost got scammed by Uber driver
AUTHOR: MrR060t
DATE: 2022-05-01
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/nagpur/comments/ug13cr/almost_got_scammed_by_uber_driver/
--- POST TEXT ---

Today I was returning from Hyderabad with my family this morning. Took an Uber from bus stop and reached home. The app showed Rs.157 as the fare but driver told me it's Rs. 302. He showed that amount in his screen but in a very deceptive way. Probably he was using some shady app like PayTM scam apps. When I asked him to show it to me properly he kept evading it. 

He kept saying that this is an issue with app, it adds cancellation fees from previous rides. If you raise an issue with uber for extra amount, they will refund it in your wallet. He just kept saying to pay him now as fare/charges has been deducted from his account. He tried to convince me that he lives nearby and will share his phone number &amp; if there was an issue he will come back and return the money.

When I asked for his official ID, he got aggressive. He gave back Rs. 200 note that I gave him earlier, saying "meri tarf se rakh le" and drove away. When I came back to my apartment, he called me demanding the extra amount and when I cut the call, he sent me a message in a threatening tone. Instantly I called back to confront him but he started apologising, telling me about money he lost in past due to this issue. Saying he is ready to share his details with me. At this point i was almost ready to give him money even though I knew that most probably it is a scam. 

In the mean time, my brother called our neighbor who's also an Uber driver. He came and asked him to show his app, telling him that app has all the details about rides and if he can show that amount in app we will pay. Seeing he has no leverage now, he drove away without saying a word. This whole ordeal lasted about an hour and was quite draining. I have raised a complaint against him with uber, but not sure what action they will take. I just wanted to share my experience so that no one else has to go through it and loose money to such assh*les.

tl;dr: Uber driver tried to scam me by showing me double amount for fare on his phone. Got aggressive and threatening, when confronted played victim. Neighbor, who's also an Uber driver, helped us in finally getting rid of him.