SOURCE: Reddit - r/Gurgaon
CITY: Gurgaon
TITLE: Awareness
AUTHOR: Right_Test_5749
DATE: 2024-06-26
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/gurgaon/comments/1dohjj4/awareness/
--- POST TEXT ---

Everybody be careful about a new type of scam where delhi police / delhi high court calls you to let you know about a withdrawal made of 25lakhs from a specific bank of Delhi location and try to scare you of being associated with a politician (i wont name) and accuse for committing a crime of money laundering. The constable will apparently pass on the call after sharing some case details to Delhi crime branch where you will be asked to be on skype/ whatsapp video call and asked to share bank details (mostly asked for last digit number of each bank and exact amount remaining). They scare you about not informing about this to anyone or else you and the other person will be charged with 6 months of jail or 20 lakhs fine. I was asked to stay on video call for entire time until the case gets solved, and was instructed to take my phone with video call on even in washroom and while sleeping too. I would need to share screen when texting anybody and even was asked not to let parents know. They apparently want to save me and releasing any confidential data to anybody (including parents) may threaten my security 😂 i was very much convinced and was on Video call for more than 2 hours, later decided to do a mini research of my own secretly on my ipad while the scammer was watching me. I somehow traced the police officer (through google lens) who's picture was used in the id card (fake) and realised i am on the verge of getting scammed. I just informed the guy on my findings and cut the call. 

Just to let you all know, everything might seem authentic just the way it seemed to me, but its a scam. Let your mom/dad or elders know who might easily believe into such calls and proceed with it. Fortunately i came onto my senses after 2 hours, later transferred all my money into somebody else's account. Only thing i am scared about is that i was on video call with them, what if they recorded it and later blackmail me with filthy edits/ deepfakes.

Stay safe everybody, this world is full of scammers.

My fingers are aching with all these typings, but then i also had to aware you all. Stay safe, Bye!