SOURCE: Reddit - r/Gurgaon
CITY: Gurgaon
TITLE: Should I accept this job?
AUTHOR: Basic-Promotion4757
DATE: 2025-05-01
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/gurgaon/comments/1kc8yab/should_i_accept_this_job/
--- POST TEXT ---

I am senior Associate consultant in Infosys, I have 3 years of experience in Infosys. I have worked in Oracle Cloud experience domain. My salary in Infosys is 8.4 lpa fixed and 9.3 lpa including variable. I joined Infosys after my MBA, I am functional consultant in Infosys. In Infosys we get 80% variable salary atleast.
Few days ago i got job offer from Accenture strategy and consulting for Management consultant analyst role (Management level 11). They said they can only pay me 11.3 lpa fixed and 21% max variable pay. So, in total i had only 34% increase in my fixed salary pay.

I searched online about this role and i came to know that Accenture strategy and consulting is reputed branch of Accenture and they hire from top IIMs for same role at 25 lpa fixed package. Two of my fellow colleagues who were with me in Infosys also got 100% hike in Accenture strategy and consulting. I don't know why she is trying to lowball me only. I asked HR to increase fixed pay to 13 lpa atleast she said it is not possible in strict way.

One of my colleague who joined Accenture technology (not Accenture strategy and consulting) as simple testing lead is also getting 12 lpa fixed pay, she joined Accenture before we got 7% hike in Infosys.

They are thinking i will be keen to work in high pressure, high demanding role just for 34% fixed salary hike. We all know Accenture variable pay is scam.
I wasted my time giving interview for this organisation. I have already resigned from Infosys today and few days back accepted this Accenture offer also but i think I would not join Accenture S&amp;C, I will look for some other opportunities. 
I am still not able to understand why will anyone join a place at 11.3 lpa fixed salary where his colleagues at same role are getting 18 lpa, 20 lpa and 25 lpa fixed pay. Why they thought I will agree to work in high stress , bad WLB and low job security place just for 34% fixed salary hike. If I work there then manager will think that since I am management consultant analyst I will be earning 20 lpa atleast so I should work accordingly, while in reality I will be getting 11.3 lpa fixed salary only.