SOURCE: Reddit - r/Nagpur
CITY: Nagpur
TITLE: FAKE ONEPLUS STORE
AUTHOR: Few-Heat-5043
DATE: 2024-04-02
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/nagpur/comments/1btvqg5/fake_oneplus_store/
--- POST TEXT ---

Before you tell me that it's my mistake for trusting them yes I know it is. But I just want to inform you guys.

Store name: Approval interprises
Photos: in comments section

So a few months ago I visited this store Apporva interprises which claimed to be authorised service centre when I first visited them as they also have their own OnePlus website so I felt for it. I had green line issue which should have been replaced for free but then after 2 days my back panel got damaged so as a result I had to pay for the original price for the back panel and the screen which costed 14k in total. 
Now, I was unaware how original OnePlus screens are replaced, I got my phone back in 3 days after submitting it in the store. After a 2 months I started facing issues, my touch didn't work when the phone was laid on a flat surface and the brightness automatically increased. Also, the touch works properly when there is no screen guard, I thought this is the issue but I changed my guard 3 times and I have faced the same issue. Now, I visited the store and told my problem, they said it will take 4 days just to see what is the issue, I had a job and most updates were on phone the files and etc so I couldn't give that time. But on the same day I thought I'll visit another OnePlus store to check if they repair it any sooner. Now, when I visited the store beside burdi haldiram which is an authorised centre, they told me that the bill is not original and the centre from which I repaired is not authorised. 

Now I got back to the store and questioned them, the staff had no answer, also when we asked if you have repaired my screen with orginal parts they had no answer "the lady kept on saying hum sirf services provide krte he". 

So for a few days I have been in touch with the OnePlus customer care and they told me the process that how it works and how the authorised centre works. So basically, when you give the store your mobile for replacement, they will put a request on OnePlus website for the original parts and they will replace it within 7 days, they also give you job sheet number and invoice number of the orginal OnePlus parts they have ordered or given the phone to. 

The store said "apka data dikh nai Raha, hum dhund rahe he", when I asked again apne orginal parts lagaye he kya, the owner told me don't worry I'll replace your mobile parts with orginal and I will also provide orginal invoices. We kept on asking them Bhai original lagaya he kya vo batao he didn't say anything he insisted on replacement. 

Ab mere 7 din bhi Bina phone ke jayege, mere kam me problems hogi. Owner was saying ki aap store pr la do me 1 -2 din me change kr deta hu, but then I said mene customer service se bat Kiya he 7 din lgte he pick-up and drop me. Even the owner was shocked how do I know so much about OnePlus services lol he was trying to scam me again. But finally he agreed on his mistake that he has no data, but he didn't agree that he has provided the duplicate parts. 

Also, even when you search for there location, the orginal OnePlus address is shown which is beside haldiram.