SOURCE: Reddit - r/Hyderabad
CITY: Hyderabad
TITLE: Suspicious of many acclaimed self driven car rentals in the city. Help?
AUTHOR: TheFlyingChimp1
DATE: 2024-06-27
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1dpmzbb/suspicious_of_many_acclaimed_self_driven_car/
--- POST TEXT ---

I have been sifting through threads upon threads on self driven car rentals over the last week in this sub. Here's my summary:

Long Drive - highest number of ratings in Google (with definitely &gt;90% of them being fake) and oft-quoted in the sub. Horrifying experiences from 1-star reviews, mostly centered around customer support, refund, timely car delivery/return. Only plus seems to be the extensive collection of cars at decent prices. 

Zoomcar - general opinion across cities has been negative. My friends have been left stranded in under maintained cars. App is pretty patchy during ride start/end, support is decent and rates are comparable to Long Drive, however. 

MyChoiz - minimum duration is a day, haven't come across many users here. However Google has the most believable set of ratings (nearly expected distribution across the tiers).

Revv - the most positive of all and the priciest, too. Haven't seen it mentioned as much as Long Drive, but most of the experiences mentioned have been pleasant. 

Other app/website based rentals (IndusGo, Driven etc.) - have only seen their names listed, no experiences. Limited selection of cars as well.

Local city rentals - extremely suspicious, while many people do recommend exploring these options I'm uncertain about their reliability and guarantees. Many one star reviews spoke of issues similar to Long Drive - bad customer service, unknown history of vehicles etc., even though prices are cheaper than on the app-based ones. Haven't come across repeated mentions of a particular local rental. 

With these findings, I have held off on my trip for tomorrow. Trusting any of these services seems like a gamble with odds set against me. What do I do? Am I overdoing this or should I stand my guard and stay away, maybe look towards cars from people I know?