SOURCE: Reddit - r/Chandigarh
CITY: Chandigarh
TITLE: E-com site fined ₹18,000 for delaying Chandigarh resident’s refund.
AUTHOR: Voxyacomplaintforum
DATE: 2025-03-03
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chandigarh/comments/1j2g7jw/ecom_site_fined_18000_for_delaying_chandigarh/
--- POST TEXT ---

The Chandigarh District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission-1 ordered Amazon to refund ₹40,325 to the complainant because of the delay in giving her refund after hackers had ordered multiple times with her Amazon account, the Chandigarh District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission-1 has asked Amazon India to pay ₹10,000 as damages for mental torture and harassment inflicted on the complainant. The commission has further asked the company to pay ₹8,000 towards litigation expenses.

The complainant had lodged a complaint against Amazon Retail India Private Limited, her mobile phone was hacked by fraudsters. As a result, her e-mail ID and ICICI Bank credit card were also hacked, and used by the fraudsters.

The fraudsters ordered several times online to purchase articles using her Amazon account. Initially suspecting suspicious activity, the orders were cancelled and she was notified of this on her email ID at 01.12 pm.

But then some other orders by fraudsters were accommodated by Amazon without confirming the credentials and payment was made through "Amazon Pay Later".

Later, the orders were cancelled and a refund was guaranteed to her. But up to now, the amount has not been paid back. She then filed a consumer commission, seeking ₹40,325.

In its defence, Amazon India responded to a complaint about a hacked account by assisting the user in sanitizing her account and canceling orders. They clarified that payments for seller orders are managed in a nodal account following RBI guidelines, which Amazon does not operate or maintain.

The commission, in its order, observed that it is a common practice of online sites that specifically a product prior to collection at the time of return is checked rigorously by the collecting agent, and the same is collected only when the same is confirmed to be identical with the item supplied and in case of any disparity, the product is never collected by the collecting agent.

We are of the considered view that all the sale transactions, amount collection, guarantee of delivery of a product, cancellation request processing, return request and amount refund are governed and managed by Amazon alone.". But in the current case, the action of Amazon for not adequately deal with the situation in spite of having full knowledge of the suspicious transaction and failing to take immediate action on the complaint of the complainant and ignoring the genuine repeated requests of the complainant, and compelling her to engage in the current litigation amounts to deficiency in service on their part.

Published by **Voxya** as an initiative to help consumers in resolving consumer complaints.