SOURCE: Reddit - r/Chandigarh
CITY: Chandigarh
TITLE: Cafe/ Lounge scam
AUTHOR: minibot98
DATE: 2024-05-31
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chandigarh/comments/1d4c63a/cafe_lounge_scam/
--- POST TEXT ---

TLDR; 
Escaped a lounge bill scam
Girl orders drinks and leave you with 8-10k bill
Place-Vegas, sec 9 Panchkula

I matched with a girl on PURE. 
Within few minutes, she was making plans to meet asked if i drink and said let’s go and have few drinks. She said she has some work in sec 9 Panchkula.
I got suspicious by her readiness but then i thought its public place only, what bad can happen if she aint legit. 
I asked for her contact, i tried calling but the call wont connect, she said she doesnt have recharge but was using whatsapp, i asked her to video call me, she didnt, just keep on giving excuses, i was sure by then its something fishy. I called my friend, shared the incident, shared my live location, at this time i was more curious to know whats cooking. I went, the girl was different from her pictures, ugly, with at least a kg of make up on her face, i had already parked my car in distance got there early and lied about my eta. She casually pretended that we just happened to be there and lets go to this “Vegas” lounge for drinks, i told her i have only been to Hops all my life here and i dont wanna go to some random place, again she was like though its already in front of us so why take a walk, even the boy at the reception seemed to know her(this is what i felt by their body language). We went inside and she tried to initiate a conversation but i was feeling very out of place, the place had dim lights, very few people, more than customers they all looked staff, who know what roles they had. She went to the washroom and a waiter opened a premium water bottle (worth more than ₹100 i think) i asked him what bro, who asked you for this, please bring normal water, it must have been around 20s, i got up pretending to be busy with my phone, on my way to the door, the guy from the reception came after my asking sir is everything okay, i said i need to make a call, he replied you can do it here as well by that time i was in front of lift, i sad no neeche jaake hi karunga, i got into the lift, drove to my friends place, we had some carlsbergs laughed about the incident, grateful about the save and ranted about how the things we used to hear about in metropolitan have started to happen here as well.

I matched with 2 more of such girls within the same week asking to meet in sec 9 Panchkula cause they had some “work” there.