SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kochi
CITY: Kochi
TITLE: Got scammed by Loan agent
AUTHOR: mysouldrifts
DATE: 2025-02-01
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kochi/comments/1ieyal7/got_scammed_by_loan_agent/
--- POST TEXT ---

First of all this post is about a business loan scam. I am publishing it as an awareness.

Scene 1

I got a long time project. It's a branding , marketing , lead generation and sales process for an academy. I wanted a 3 month back up fund to successfully finish the project as the client releases the payment quarterly.

Scene 2

I got a Loan agent's number and upon discussion he agreed to help me. He offered me to arrange a loan or find out an investor for my project. After a week he contacted me and inform me that Mudra loan isn't available for my proposal so he managed to find out an investor for me 

Scene 3 

I met him directly . He told me that he has arranged a fund from his client , an NRI, as a short term investment for a period of 4 months. If everything goes as planned , he will help me to renew the investment. I agreed . After 3-4 days he contacted me and said that the fund is ready. I met him again. He did hand over me the ac payee chaque and agreement. As security he collected my personal cheque.

Scene 4 

On the next day as per his instruction I have presented the cheque . It got bounced due to insufficient funds. At the same day I got a message from bank that the cheques I had given to him was also presented for clearance someone else .

Scene 5 - Mystery reveals 

1- he is fraud 
2- He offers loan or Investment 
3- it is a cheque - cheque network model fraud. He collected cheque from me and showing my cheque to others, offered them investment.

4 - He collects 2500 - 3000 Rs as processing fee once he hand over the ac payee cheque

Tale end 

From my experience I understand that a solo entrepreneur who got no one to back up has to face many obstacles on the way. But this level of scam not only drains the time and money but the energy and confidence also. I Need to start the committed work this month. Am optimistic that a door will open soon.

ഇങ്ങനെ മറ്റുള്ളവരെ പറ്റിച്ച് ജീവിക്കുന്നവനെയൊക്കെ പാമ്പ് കടിയേറ്റു , ഹോസ്പിറ്റലിൽ കൊണ്ട് പോകുമ്പോൾ ആംബുലൻസ് ടയർ പഞ്ചർ ആയി നടു റോഡിൽ കിടന്ന് പ്രാണൻ പോകണം