SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: Let's Decode why was the person responsible of death of Students in ORN was granted bail !
AUTHOR: Extremepleasurepro
DATE: 2024-08-02
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1eic1px/lets_decode_why_was_the_person_responsible_of/
--- POST TEXT ---

About 8 students died recently in Delhi's Rau Ias coaching centre due to the flooding of the basement but only deaths of 3 students came into limelight and rests are not reported by media because of Pressure of the big guns.

The person who was arrested for the murder was the Suv driver Manuj Khaturia who is a businessman 

He killed those students in a ruthless manner , the roads outside the coaching institute was flooded with water so this guy drived his suv on the road outside coaching institute due to which the water moved towards the institute's gate and destroyed it which resulted in water getting inside the basement.

Now we have all the proofs to 

This guy paid 28% gst on his Suv
Plus other Rto taxes too 

Income tax too 

He also pays tax of More than Rs30 on every litre of petrol 

18% gst on his mobile phone 

And whatnot taxes

He thinks for this much amount of tax he can drive on a Wavepool Road such audacity 

The SUV driver was booked under Sections 105 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 115 (2) (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS) in the case.

On Wednesday, terming the offence as "serious", the magisterial court had denied bail to Mr Kathuria, saying the plea was "untenable at this stage".

But Delhi Hight court Granted bail to the Criminal "What is Delhi Police doing? Have they lost it? What are its officials who are monitoring the probe doing? This is a cover up or what?" the high court said while hearing a petition seeking a probe into the incident

But the bail was granted on a bond of Rs 50,000.

Like Seriously if he is not the criminal then why 50k ? 

Then who is the Criminal 

Lg ? Who is elected by Central Gov

Mcd ? Which has some officials elected by public and some by Lg 

State Gov ? Which has leaked a video of him asking delhi Central Secretary for the desilting of sewers sevral times 

Or the public who still have a colonial mindset of not questing the authority who are so called public servants ?