SOURCE: Reddit - r/Mumbai
CITY: Mumbai
TITLE: Warning: Book My Bai SCAM
AUTHOR: [deleted]
DATE: 2023-04-10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/mumbai/comments/12hafdn/warning_book_my_bai_scam/
--- POST TEXT ---

I am posting this on a few subs to warn people NOT to use Book My Bai.

I am desperately looking for a helper, so I tried the service. First they ask you your location and what work you need done. I need cleaning, so I put floor cleaning, bathrooms, etc. They show you 400+ profiles that match your requirements. In order to "shortlist" maids you need to pay Rs. 1000, that is refundable if you don't find anyone.

I paid the Rs. 1000, and suddenly all the info on the maids' profiles changed. Earlier their location was showing my location, now it changed to locations very far from me. The work they were willing to do also changed, and none of them did cleaning.

When I got a call from book my bai and asked them about this, instead of helping they said "ok we'll refund the Rs. 1000". No explanation for why the maids profiles changed after you paid the money. When I asked more questions I was told "We refunded your money, now what's your problem". My problem is I wasted so much time on this nonsense!

It is a full scam. Please warn others and never use this service, it's a waste of time. I have reported them to the consumer court as well. It's ridiculous that such services are allowed to continue when they are clearly scams.

EDIT: To everyone saying "it's not a scam if you got your money back". Please read the post before mindlessly saying this. The scam part is that the info in the profiles change once you pay the Rs. 1000. The location of the maid and the work she is willing to do is completely different after the payment is made. They call you but they aren't interested in finding you a maid on the phone either. Someone else mentioned "they are raising funds and increasing valuation based on just the number of subscribers, visitors and paid/free customers converted to paid ones", and I think they are probably right, because they are super quick to give you the money back and not interested in providing the service they advertise.