SOURCE: Reddit - r/Bengaluru
CITY: Bengaluru
TITLE: Scam Alert!
AUTHOR: Patient-Effect-5409
DATE: 2024-10-01
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Bengaluru/comments/1ftnmxw/scam_alert/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hey guys I work for a structural and architectural design company. The story is so today we came By a visitor a job seeker who came to office with a PDF claiming that he's received offer letter and can join the company today we believed him initially since our company was also looking for drafters and designers and also had an online job posting about that.
About the person:
He was medium short and looked like 25-28 year old.
So he claims that he's worked In Singapore on contract basis as Autocad drafter in architecture and electrical and has 8 years of experience. Also he says there's no jobs in there and he's come here for job. So he says he was staying In Madurai in PG which happens to be his hometown.

And comming back to office:
He was provided with system and told to do basic drawing stuff and he took some time and eventually did it. So my senior came to check him and he couldn't speak Kannada. So we had our admin speak on behalf and translate. And he told everything.

Coming to the scam:
&gt;He claims that he booked PG through online and paid 2k. When he went to the place they say that he had been scammed and don't know about this.
&gt;He says he's not eaten anything and has only 400rs in his pocket and has no place nor anyone he knows staying in Bengaluru.
&gt;When I told him to go back to hometown and arrange money and return back for staying in Bengaluru he replied his parents were staying in Qatar and he doesn't have place to stay.( I offered him to buy food for him).
&gt;He couldn't speak proper fluent English. I was having a chat with him in the break and he seems to be very poor in english he couldn't catch my words

We started doubting his claims as he was asking advance salary for making room in Bengaluru and eventually he was sent to our manager upstairs ( don't know what happened maybe he left) He doesn't know Kannada it's ok, but Staying in Singapore atleast he should've known some next level english or How the hell does someone come to an unknown place without atleast some deep pockets and someone who doesn't have anyone in their hometown to stay.

What are your thoughts guys ಏನು ಹೇಳುತ್ತೀರಾ ಗುರು 
(He brought a luggage trolley bag and a backpack with him to office directly)
???