SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: Kotak Bank is total sh*t
AUTHOR: AutomaticWallaby9
DATE: 2024-07-15
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1e3onai/kotak_bank_is_total_sht/
--- POST TEXT ---

Today went to SBI and kotak to de-link my aadhar card (because of AEPS frauds, to know about it check my new post)

1. KOTAK (I have 811 zero balance acc.)

I went their, asked what's the procedure to de-link my aadhar card. In the first glance they said it's not even possible. I insisted that it is possible and people are doing it. Then they asked why do you want it. I told them that there's a big transaction going to happen, they asked how big, I said 30 lacs (jhooth bola).

He: "sir aapka to account hi block hojayega kyuki 811 acc to unn logo ke liye h jo kam paisa rakhte hai, aapko to account upgrade krana padega"

Me: "Mere account mein koi limit nahi hai, agar mein 5 crore bhi rakhu to bank ko usse kya problem"

He: "Nhi aapka account automatically block hojayega"

Me: "Jo account details mein max balance unlimited likha h uska kya matlab fir" 

He had no answer to this. But kept saying block hojayega, in the end I had to say "koi nahi hojane do block mein dekh lunga baad mein"

He did all this because he wanted me to upgrade my account having 25k minimum balance limit and he can get some commission. 

2. SBI
I asked the same thing here, they said why do you want to de-link, I told the same thing about AEPS (aadhar enabled payment system). They checked their system and told me that AEPS is already disabled from my account and no need to worry. All this took 15 minutes and no illogical questions were asked.

I know SBI is a meme material as "lunch ke baad aana" but trust me it's a superb bank I would say. I have account in SBI from last 5 years and I haven't faced any single issue in these years. Bank staff is cooperative, though there's a lot of crowd in the branch but branch jaane ki need hi saal mein 1 2 baar hoti h. And the feeling of safety in SBI is unmatched 

And in case of kotak, this is the first time I went to the bank branch in 2 years and this was my experience. All the staff was busy in gossips. Har counter pe employees couple banake baithe hue, baatein krre chai peere. If you see the work load, kotak ke paas 1/10th customers bhi nahi sbi ke comparison mein fir bhi inko rules theek se nahi pata