SOURCE: Reddit - r/Amravati
CITY: Amravati
TITLE: Croma amravati is worst or all Croma stores are that bad?!
AUTHOR: fuzzyduckboi
DATE: 2024-10-10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Amravati/comments/1g0basn/croma_amravati_is_worst_or_all_croma_stores_are/
--- POST TEXT ---

I went to croma store to buy ACs. Had the qorst experience ever. I will point them out.

1) The salesman had only very very basic knowledge, usse jyada toh mujhe khud pata tha. Conada air flow kya rehta malum nahi tha ch*tiye ko.

2) They were trying so hard to sell me llyod ACs which i didn't want to buy. I had seen llyod reviews and they were not good.

3) They only keep higher expensive 2024 model, even though a 2023 model with same ditto specifications and features is at lower price. If we ask them to get the stock of cheaper ACs, then they give wrong excuses. If you go pnline on croma , you can easily order cheaper ACs and it ill be delivered the next day. 

4) They dont give any actual discount. If you want real good discount, go to any other store but croma. I had rhe worst experience while haggling with them. The salesman said that he will go talk to senior and get discount approved. He took 1.5 hours for that. And he didn't know that i was keeping an eye on him, he went downstairs and ate his lunch that's all. So i asked him if he really asked or just wasted my time. He replied that he was waiting for reply on email for approval of discount. I asked him to show me the email, whoch he obviously didn't 😂 again ch*tiya banane ki ninja technique.

5) They take you contact information , and sell your personal information to data broker and you keep getting scam, spam and fraud calls. And i know rhis cause i recently got a new number and the only place i shared it was croma.

6) They try to talk sweet, but once you have bought their products, they wont even pick ip the call. If you dont believe me, go to google maps amd try calling them😂😂 maine toh khud store ke store maise call lagaya and saw that they were actively trying to AVOID calls. Bsdk

7) They have this zipcare package which is like extended warranty plans. DONT BUY IT, cause for that to work you need to call croma everytime, and as i mentioned croma doesn't pick up the call.

8) while i was there i saw the salesmam doing something shady, he was doing some kind of bill fraud and people got angry, after that people were give emi option without their consent. 

9) so finally te ACs which were costing me 1,09,688 rsnin croma costed me 79,666 rs in kedia traders.