SOURCE: Reddit - r/Jabalpur
CITY: Jabalpur
TITLE: Help 
AUTHOR: AdditionNo9765
DATE: 2024-05-04
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Jabalpur/comments/1cjzhac/help/
--- POST TEXT ---

Don't call me scam and all. Please read my post. I'm genuinely in a critical position. 

I'm 24m, engineering graduate in computer science . After finishing my course in 2022, I somehow joined a internship and unfortunately I didn't get permanent and I tried for interviews and then the interviews are less happening and laying off started. So I went to my home and from then I was sitting in my home for more then a year and I have no choice but to join a training in online which was recommended by my uncle and after six months of training, if I do well, he promised me they'll give you experience certificate in 6 months and total 1 year spend but you'll get experience certificate for 2 years and then you'll get job with high salary like that. He is working in IT only and he also joined a company at starting of his period through fake certificate only and it doesn't take much time for him , just costed money and 10 years back, background verification is not that much.. Now I going to finish the 6 months training in JSP and Java servelet and it's already old technology than spring and many companies are not using that. And I came to know only that after the training, I need to take class for next batch for 6 months and then I'll need to work for them in project then they'll start the pf and salary process for 6 months. So it may take more then 1 year from now and I already spend 6 months. If I got a job for less salary I would have had 1.5 years experience at the end. Now I lost interst and my friend is attending interviews in the city and he is been saying that atleast 2 walk-ins are happening in week and participates are more but interviews are happening, come here and attend the interviews like that he is saying. When I said this to my parents, they asked my uncle and told me to continue this training and attend any interviews come online. Market is still not good and going to attend interviews is waste of money like that. After my college, little by little lost my freedom and even if there is no interviews, I can't go and join another work like bpo and explore the place nd learn and in reality, if I'm alone I had no motivation to get a job instead if I'm surrounded by IT workers and job searchers means I have some new motivations like to complete this, read this , solve this like that. I already fought many times with my parents and they're not letting me, I'm saying that I'll attend training also just look for interviews like that still not accepting. I haven't talked to my uncle and I won't. I have three friends and they taken a room and 2 are unemployed and 1 is employed and some other persons also staying there and they cook occasionally and eat outside. If I go means I don't want to pay the rent for one month. My plan is that, I'll runaway by night (within this week) and get a bus and go there and stay with them and get a part time job or bpo from wfh and concentrate on interviews like that and after reaching I'll inform my parents that I'm here don't disturb me for atleast two months. I'll come visit you soon like that. I have ₹600 and looking for more and I need small financial help from anyone. I'll return it once I got salary from the part time works and also ready to do all the social works or any helps others needed and volunteer for social works