SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: How astrologers scam you, from a former astrologer
AUTHOR: Intelligent_Hawk_673
DATE: 2025-03-22
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1jha1rp/how_astrologers_scam_you_from_a_former_astrologer/
--- POST TEXT ---

Firstly, why you should listen to me? That's a valid question. tbh I don't have an answer to that. It's all upto you to read it and make sense of it in your own way. The fact that you clicked on this post means that you're bound to read it and want to know truth. I'm not saying that I'm absolutely right here, I'm here to simply tell you guys my experience of being an astrologer and why I decided to leave it behind.

So let's start, you might have heard about karma at some point in your life, from parents mostly. How does karma work?? Well basically things you've done in your past life or this life will decide how you're going to be living your present life, all the bad things and good things that happen in your life are results of your deeds at some point.

How does astrology work? I would like to talk about this first. Astrology relies on reading your birth chart which is created the moment you're born, meaning that chart or kundli contains every information about you. Your mentality, job, marriage etc. Basically how your life will be. Will you be living a good life, poor life or life full of suffering? And believe me when I say it shows everything, even the way you think, it's all there.

Now my issue is not with astrology, my issue is with astrologers who basically scam you. My teacher used to say that 99% of astrologers don't know anything which is a very big statement actually but now I have understood why he said that.

Learning astrology requires having a deep understanding of the basics but after that there's no roadmap, you simply have to learn it and apply that knowledge in your own way and make your own logic and come up with what works best for you. There is no book that'll teach everything. What I'm trying to say here is that after learning the basics, you're on your own, you have to figure out everything yourself. Which is the point where 99% of astrologers get stuck, I was too.

I had no idea what to do next or what to read, what to learn. It feels like someone showed you a path you have to travel but that path is so empty and has no end. Now this is where the issue starts, and all the scamming. That's why it's said that having a teacher is necessary.

At this point, astrologers start to explore (they call it research) watching YouTubers, buying courses etc. since they already know the basics. They try to learn everything, but in reality they don't even know the basics. They think that they know everything and want to learn more but they can't coz they still stand at the beginning of that path but they think they have already started walking it. 

Meaning - they think that they know the basics but they don't know. 

After spending time wandering watching random youtubers who are there just to promote their courses, and reading tons of articles, books and stuff they still cannot make a single prediction. But they have spent so much time doing it that they start thinking that they are actually learning astrology. Spending this much time makes them develop this arrogance of knowing so much that most people don't know. They think they are superior and start thinking that they are special in this world or i would like to call it “god's favourite”.

Now slowly they focus on learning simple techniques which are used to predict things coz they can't predict obviously. Once they start doing it, and figure out some tips and tricks comes the day where they actually predict something, which comes out to be true coz techniques work flawlessly. The moment they make their first prediction, it gives them happiness. Think of it as receiving your first salary. All the hard work they have been doing finally paid off and now they have become astrologers.

What comes next ? More techniques obviously, at this point it's not even about astrology anymore, it's all about learning techniques and copying and making predictions. After doing this for a long time they develop this ego of knowing everything there is to know about astrology or religion or god or whatever you wanna call it. They think they are so special that astrology chose them. 

Then they start reading charts full time and making predictions which results in other people giving them respect and people like us make them feel so special and so knowledgeable that their ego keeps on growing. I mean who doesn't love to be told that they are doing awesome work, they're so smart, they know everything. 

There are astrologers who are so young, like 18-22 years old, these guys are in another realm totally. They talk like they are god themselves or they invented astrology in their past life that's why they know so much in this life. Doing astrology is the only reason they were born in this world, and one day they will change the world totally. They are so special and we must give them our utmost respect. 

I remember there was a guy on reddit who was 19 years old and my friend asked him a simple question about his chart once, my guy said “I do paid readings only and i charge 3300 with 2 days waiting period” Like bruh (actual bruh moment right there) when my friend placed an argument about the price, he starts spouting nonsense about how much he knows and we can check his post as well where he has uploaded screenshots of his predictions from his previous readings which are true (techniques obviously). They all follow the same mindset of knowing so much. 

When I was learning astrology, I have also came into contact with them, they all have this group where everyone is so young and they share techniques with each other, they organise meetings where they will share what they have learned today or yesterday or whatever. All these guys ever do is talk about techniques. Impressing the client is all that matters coz they will get money obviously. Would you believe me if I said that there is a technique from which they can see what is going on inside your mind, your thoughts, what you're gonna think in next 2 hours. Yep it's all there. All it requires is just 0.1% knowledge of basics but if someone has 100% knowledge of basics, you cannot even fathom what that person can tell. But 99% of astrologers are happy with their 0.1% potential and it's enough to make money coz it's all they desire. I know a girl who uses chatgpt and she charges 1k for consultation. There's a girl on Instagram who does paid readings and literally tells you what is on Google. 

Now these are also astrologers who are getting hired by big famous (I'm not gonna say names here, but you know).

It's all about money, nobody knows anything, it's all a scam in the end. Everyone shows how much they know so they can get more people to buy their courses, their consultations which costs absurd amount of money. I don't even wanna start about youtubers here. 

So now can we say that astrology doesn't work?? No, that would be saying earth doesn't revolve around the sun. The right thing is, astrology works flawlessly but the problem is astrologers who have tiny brains and they cannot even accept the fact that they don't even know the basics. They are the problem here.

It truly makes me sad watching today's generation playing around with this knowledge. Nobody wants to work 9-5 anymore, everyone wants to be a businessman/self employed and this is the way they decide to make money. BRAVO

In the end I'll give you guys a technique so you can apply it and don't get your money wasted. I'm here just to save your money, you can say.

If at some point in your life, you do decide to buy any consultation from anyone, always ask for proof of their knowledge. Not from their screenshot but asking them to predict something about what happened in your life at a particular time. Ask them to predict 3 events that have happened and only you know when they have happened, if they claim to know everything, that won't be an issue right?? If they do it accurately, you can proceed but if not. Well you get the answer.

Some more things I wanna say to those who do know a little bit of astrology and watch youtubers, you should be aware of what they are saying and predicting. For example, someone with a video of 10k views said in his video that if you have this in your charts that mean you'll have 3 marriage, 3 marriage in the sense of 1 legal marriage and 2 affairs. Now imagine 200 people had that in their chart and 5 of them decide to buy his consultation which costs 5k. He just made our monthly salary in one day congratulations. Why will they buy it? Coz nobody else have said that before and everyone loves to be popular among ladies obviously. They purposely say intresting things to grab your attention.

So don't believe anyone online, not even me. Make it your own logic and don't be stupid. Think before you believe someone. Think about whom you're giving your money. If you're thinking about roasting my english, well i already know. Sorry about that