SOURCE: Reddit - r/Pune
CITY: Pune
TITLE: Did anyone come across a guy asking for fare money?
AUTHOR: chikachikaslimshady_
DATE: 2022-10-04
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/pune/comments/xvgzp2/did_anyone_come_across_a_guy_asking_for_fare_money/
--- POST TEXT ---

So me and my friend went to Comet(a stationery store in Mukundnagar ahead of Swargate bus stop).
A guy approached us frantically and said someone stole his wallet and he needed some money for bus fare. He further explained he was from Kolkata and came to Pune for his 10th examination.
I thought it'd be fine to help him out so we handed him some money.
He asked if we knew where to catch the bus from
We suggested he'd go to Swargate bus stop.
He then proceeded to ask us if we could help him cross the road as he wasn't used to it and afraid (because apparently Kolkata has pedestrian crossings as he stated) . He really was anxious about the vehicles coming through from opposite directions (typical Pune roads). So we helped him cross the road and then he asked us if we could come here tomorrow again so he could give back the money .
I said no it's fine you could keep it and help someone else. He was very persistent on returning the money and asked us where our college was
We didn't give him the name.
He left and we crossed the road again .
We were looking for an auto so had to wait.
My friend saw him asking someone to help him cross again and he did come back and asked us if we could give him our number so he could transfer the money back online .
Mind you he didn't have a mobile phone with him , he said his uncle who met him daily near his lodge would pay it . We again refused but he was still persistent and gave us his/his uncle's number.
We didn't ring him .
We booked it out of there somehow and got into an auto rickshaw .
I was paranoid the entire way back of him following us. 
He didn't but the whole incident seemed absurd and made me anxious.
He didn't seem native to Maharashtra and looked lost.
Could be genuine or could be a scam.
Idk people , had to vent it out .