SOURCE: Reddit - r/Chennai
CITY: Chennai
TITLE: Disappointed On My Mom
AUTHOR: No-Programmer-9434
DATE: 2024-11-05
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/1gjwqt0/disappointed_on_my_mom/
--- POST TEXT ---

It was supposed to be a normal day in office. I was just driving my car to the office and I get a message from my Mom, “I got scammed for INR 16 Lakhs”.
I couldn’t process it for a moment. 
The scam happened in the most popular method
1. Mom gets added to a Telegram group
2. They ask her to give reviews and she paid 2K for which they refunded 2.8K
3. She kept doing this process for a few times and then they added her to a separate group called “Elite Investors”
4. They slowly asked her to invest 1,3,8 and 4 Lakhs separately
5. She didn’t inform me or my sister about this. Took a gold loan and directly transferred the money to those guys and they just disappeared. (The image is the last message she got from those guys)

Coming back to the title, why am I disappointed?
I am one of the kids who at a very young age decided I need to sacrifice a lot of entertainment and needed to study to have a proper future. 
I did that and got into TN’s top university and India’s Top B school too. I got a job which I really loved and I have never pressurised my family for extravagant stuff or anything fancy. I even told my mom that I will do a marriage at a Register office rather than doing before 500 people whom I don’t know. 

Have no idea why she even invested such a big amount she saved for building a house. Now the house dream will happen after a long time. I’m in Bangkok for my company project and I don’t even know what to do. I always used to think “How can people even fall for these scams?” Guess greed is something which takes over a lot. 

If anyone can guide me on the next steps, it would be really nice. Sorry for venting out here. Also, please take care of your family and protect them from these scams. This 16 Lakhs puts our family back by 5 years. For some, it could be a lifelong investment.