SOURCE: Reddit - r/Gurgaon
CITY: Gurgaon
TITLE: Is prostituted scam?
AUTHOR: rebel1425
DATE: 2024-11-26
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/gurgaon/comments/1h0bm3o/is_prostituted_scam/
--- POST TEXT ---

One of my friend got scammed in the name of prostituted recently here in Gurgaon. 
He searched for call girls in Gurgaon and immediately got few numbers online. Then he texted one of them and finalized a very hot good looking girl for 9k for a night with some negotiations. Then after 20 mins a car came with 2 male(typical Gunda look) and a girl. They asked to pay for the service and he refused to pay and said I will pay once she is up there. They agreed to this and dropped the girl and left immediately (the girl was not same as in the pic) and was below average looking.

Then after reaching in the flat she asked to pay and showed me the scanner, first he said that I don't want service from you as you are not the same as mentioned in the pic. The the girl starting blackmailing him that I will tear my clothes and will scream you have to pay else I will do the same and I'm not afraid of police. And also the guy who dropped her were there where they dropped her and didn't go ( they acted that they left). They were also blackmailing over the calls. Then out of frustration he decided to pay them, he asked for the scanner and tried paying the payment failed, tried with 3 different account and still it failed. Then the guys down there were giving threats that do payment else they do this and that.
Then they said that lets go to an ATM, come down with the girl with atm and your phone with the girl . Then they esorted him to the atm 6-7 km away around there area. Then after payment them 9k. They demanded 5k more and said if you will not pay then they will call their more men here and they will take the money by their own methods. He straightforward refused to pay 5k in the name of transportation charges, but they keep on giving threats and used very abusive language. So in the last he had to pay them 5k also to get rid of them.
All this happened around 2am -4 am.

Moral of the story is beware of such scams happening daily.