SOURCE: Reddit - r/Bhubaneswar
CITY: Bhubaneswar
TITLE: Urgent Requesting Advice: Unknown person credited money in my bank account in Bhubaneswar 
AUTHOR: krim_bizkit
DATE: 2024-08-07
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Bhubaneswar/comments/1em5vfa/urgent_requesting_advice_unknown_person_credited/
--- POST TEXT ---

Bankers of this sub !!, your advice is much requested in this matter.

I have an active bank account with a bank in Bhubaneswar. 

Three days ago, an unknown person credited 10K INR in my bank account. 

I thoroughly checked that transaction on my bank app. 

10K Money has actually been credited to my account. 

He apparently did the transaction via PhonePe.

I do not know that person at all. 

It may be a honest mistake by that person or could it be some sort of scam ? 

it may be a genuine case of mistyping UPI id or phone number.?!

I have not received any suspicious phone calls yet.

 Hence I think it may be a genuine mistake by sender. 

Should I contact my bank and tell them about this unsolicited/unknown transaction from my end?

Or should I wait until MY bank contacts me regarding the wrongful transaction when the Sender's Bank contacts them citing the issue?

Technically, the sender/remitter should raise a complaint with their bank once they realise their mistake. 

Then their bank will contact my bank. My bank will notify me, I have to agree regarding the wrong transaction and then my bank will debit that amount of money back to the sender's bank.

In all these years of using banking services, this has happened for the first time. 

I have no intention or interest to keep others money and want it gone ASAFP from my account. 

I have a few more worries.

Will my bank account get frozen due to such a transaction? 

While that money from unknown sender is in my account can I receive other known/solicited cash deposits made by my family members or employer?

Or should I wait until that money is transferred by bank before I can self deposit cash or get salary deposit by my employer or my family members.

If I contact the bank and tell them of this unknown transaction will they penalize me or put me in any kind of legal situation?

Kindly suggest me what should I do.