SOURCE: Reddit - r/Chandigarh
CITY: Chandigarh
TITLE: Horrible Experience at Mullanpur Stadium yesterday
AUTHOR: kaito__kido
DATE: 2024-04-14
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chandigarh/comments/1c3kuxf/horrible_experience_at_mullanpur_stadium_yesterday/
--- POST TEXT ---

Yesterday me and my friends went to IPL match between PBKS and RR. Due to traffic we got a little late around 7:40. As expected the parking was poorly handled and there was a huge queue to enter the stadium from Outer Gate 1A.

We waited patiently in the queue even though we saw some folks bypassing the queue by offering some cash to the police guy. After around 30 mins to waiting we finally reached to inner gate S5. There was full chaos at this gate and no queue at all everyone was jostling to get inside, we finally made to the entry gate.

Upon entering I noticed something strange, no one was scanning the QR code on ticket and police and staff members were simply allowing everyone (even with people without tickets to go inside) then the real scam started were a staff member and police personnel started collecting tickets and did not return it after validation, everyone assumed that it was standard procedure as an official was collecting the tickets.

When we reached to the level 3 deck to enter the stand police personnel asked for physical ticket, we all informed that tickets were collected downstairs and police personnel was reluctant to give us entry. Then we see people who did not had any tickets before purchased tickets on the spot from that person who was collecting the tickets down stairs for ₹500 each.

After arguing and requesting a lot we were finally given entry to a stand next to it that was fully packed and we had to stand and watch the match even after paying full price of ₹1500 each for the tickets, there was barely even some space to stand. There was also some foreigners and I was wondering what kind of impression they were getting from such scams.

I honestly say don't go to stadium to watch match you will be highly disappointed and even if you go make sure to reach 2-3 before and be vigilant about such scams, never hand over your full ticket to anyone even if that person is policemen or official with ID card.

I had watched an IPL match before in old PCA stadium and I had positive experience then but this experience was truly horrible and I would never go match any in-person match at least in India.