SOURCE: Reddit - r/Patna
CITY: Patna
TITLE: Dodged a renting scam yesterday 
AUTHOR: neeasmaverick
DATE: 2024-09-11
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Patna/comments/1fec80g/dodged_a_renting_scam_yesterday/
--- POST TEXT ---

So, I had put up an advertisement last weekend on real estate websites and I get an inquiry over whatsapp at around 12:30am in the night. The WhatsApp profile picture showed a family photo of a person in army costume with his wife and 2 kids. The account was a business account and it showed "Vehicle Business" that sounded absurd but I let it go and texted him to reach out to me in the morning.

Next day morning, I got a call from another number (Truecaller showed same name Deepak Pawar), so I picked up and we spoke. He mentioned he got transferred from Delhi to Patna. I asked where he is staying in Patna to which he said something like Army headquarters. This guys with his voice seemed to be native of either Haryana or Rajasthan, but he asked me to share photographs of the home as he wanted to show them to his family. The call go disconnected and I shared the photographs immediately over whatsapp.
Within 15-20 minutes, he again called me - I was in a meeting so I texted him that I would call him back. When I called him his phone seemed busy and the automated voice spoke in Bangla. Truecaller showed the number from Assam. Till this point also, I was fine thinking army officers get posted across states.

Now, he called me back - said he liked the house and wants to give me the token amount. I requested him to visit my place to be sure about everything. He said " sir, hum army officers hain, hamari jaban hoti hai..hum desh ki raksha karte hain". Asked me to share the amount he needed to pay upfront and my bank account details. I said to allow me 5 minutes and I would pass it on over the WhatsApp. Again, he said "sir, main duty pe hoon, mujhe aaj hi finalize karna hai.aap mereko amount and agreement ke liye jo document chahiye jaldi bata do". I asked him to share his aadhaar copy and he asks me to look at WhatsApp - I see not only aadhaar but pan and army canteen card photos as well. It was too good to be true, and he wanted me to just tell him the amount and account or UPI details. To which, I requested to wait 2 minutes. 
Before sharing anything I discussed with my wife and both of us felt something off. I just googled his name and I see around 4 scam complaints about him in a year with the same modus operandi. One post even mentioned the aadhar and pan numbers that matched what he shared with me.

Blocked that mf immediately. 

Just be vigilant, folks. If there are things too good to be true, don't hurry to close the deal.