SOURCE: Reddit - r/Visakhapatnam
CITY: Visakhapatnam
TITLE: Just a quick update
AUTHOR: Kunboy64
DATE: 2025-05-01
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Visakhapatnam/comments/1kc243f/just_a_quick_update/
--- POST TEXT ---

To whomever it may concern,

There has been quite some noise in the sub lately and I wanted to clarify a few things -

1) Initially this sub had no official discord server. But when a team of people came up with the idea, we thought it’d be a good idea to partner up… so that we can cross post about events and other things. That’s how it started.

2) Initially I was a Mod on the discord server too, but within no time I believe I was removed. But anyway we (Reddit mods) are not active on discord, so we didn’t bother.

3) Every now and then some complaints did come from discord but they were handled amicably. This time, the problem was highlighted and so… we removed our association with the discord server for time being. I believe even the discord moderator has left the role in the server. So I believe it’s a safe space now.

But still… please do not trust anyone blindly and get into any scams or troubles. Internet is a very vicious circle!

4) We are always to here to hear you out. Many people reach out to us on direct calls also and we talk and sort things out. But please keep the discussions and issues going forward… related to this sub only.

Kindly do not involve outside issues here.

5) We do ban some people. But that’s 1 or 2 in a Quarter or half year! That too never for personal reasons or randomly. We do so only to keep the harmony of the sub going. (If it was for personal reasons… many bans should happen and that was never the case)

In a sub of 16,000 people… if 1 or 2 are having issues with the mods and are feeling a pain or burn… I hope everyone can understand where the problem lies.

6) We are not your parents or partners to bear with you if you shout or abuse us. We are not getting paid. We do this out of passion and we obviously wouldn’t tolerate whiny people and their drama.

One has to understand that no one will misuse their power until and unless they’re provoked, their patience is tested and are made to!

So be calm, be polite and respectful and make this a safe space for yourself and others. Thanks 🙏