SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kochi
CITY: Kochi
TITLE: Update on the suicidal post from yesterday
AUTHOR: savourybipolar
DATE: 2025-02-05
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kochi/comments/1ii4ezr/update_on_the_suicidal_post_from_yesterday/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hey there, this an update for a post i made yesterday. 
I have been doing better since then, alot of people have reached out to me for emotional and surprisingly financial support. I never made the post for any direct financial help.
I appreciate everyone who has reached out to me asking for my UPI ID, I’d feel nothing but guilt from surviving off someone else’s hard earned money and i want to make it clear that my post never meant that.
But some people offered to pay off my major dues like my semester fees and driving school fees, It was never in my mind that someone would offer a stranger this much financially just out of kindness, I have accepted them. 
My major dues are cleared and that’s more than enough to keep me going for the time being.

I’m attaching some screenshots which hopefully is some proof (i don’t know what exactly to provide so im attaching what seems fit). and addressing some comments about my post being a scam by looking at my previous post.
I’m an 18M who just turned 18 last october, the post regarding the bikes and laptop was just a kid whos fueling up his delulu hoping to afford those luxuries in the future. And i kept mentioning IV since my class tutor said they gave a count and cant back off and id have to pay it regardless if i want to go or not. It was a one day IV to marayoor which im not interested in, im going to try my best to talk out of it or find some other way.

My childhood has been rough and i have tried to end myself multiple times till i turned 16, and i was genuinely at a point of doing it again and even made up plans, only thing that stopped me was the fear of surviving. Being crippled or being a vegetable or disfigured to a state to which i cant live even as a begger stopped me from jumping off a high place or infront of a train. 
Yesterday ,not even 10 minutes after i made my post, people were messaging me asking if i was okay and reassured me that i was going to be fine, words cant describe how much that meant to me. Thanks for everyone who read my post and kept me in their prayers.

I have a humble request, if anyone has an unused old android which can support blinkit partner app, please message me personally, i have an old ios device which i cant trade for an android due to its condition. Thank you.