SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: Fucked up big time because of horny please help me out
AUTHOR: awmnesium
DATE: 2023-08-27
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/162x730/fucked_up_big_time_because_of_horny_please_help/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hello redditors Idk where I should post this but for some reason this reddit community seemed perfect for it. Today my boredom and horny got the worse of me, I was horny and scrolling through reddit and saw this account where they posted that they want to sext on snap. I added them and started talking, the intro took place first, they said their name was maive and they’re 22 years old. We talked about our kinks first. Then they sent me their pic and then asked me for mine, for some dumb reason I didn’t duplicheck this time and sent my pics too. The first pic I sent was a normal face pic and the second was a dick pic (my face is not visible only my lower body is. Out of nowhere they pulled up with my insta account, sent me screenshot of all the people who follow me and the ones who’ve commented on my pics(My account is public). They threatened me that they will release my photos in a group which comprises of all my followers and make it look like I disturb them by constantly sending them such photos (I’ll attach the photos). For some stupid reason i screen recorder their pics idk why 

They even made a group comprising of 5 of my followers and sent normal photo of mine and made it sure that they are not joking (the group comprised of 3 of my college students and my online and irl friend. I immediately called one of my friends he started reporting the account. I made my account private and posted the photo with his profile link and asked people to report and block him. Simultaneously they were texting me too. I was really scared and told them I don’t have that much money (it’s month end and all I have is 1500rs). They then asked me how much karma my reddit account has, I told them about my burner account and said it has around 250 karma. They then asked me for its username and password, I was scared to death I changed the email linked with the account with my burner email id (it’s linked with another phone number) and gave them the credentials. Meanwhile I asked my friends to report it and the ones who were in the group I told them that I’m being threatened and harassed by him so just leave the group, report him and block him. Now he dropped the ransom to 50 dollars in form of a gift card. My friends asked me to block him directly and record parts of convo where they’re threatening me. I reported the snap conversation (the snapchat team did find that it violated the rights and they said that they took action), but I’m still in the group where he added me with my 5 friends as a proof. 
I’m scared about what if he makes a group of all of my followers and leak them, I’ll lose all my reputation and gharwalo ki badnaami alag. Now my major doubts are how should i proceed, ghar pe btaya to gaand tutegi aache se. I tried to file online cyber-crime complaint but the damn site won’t work and load further.

PLEASE HELP ME OUT GUYS WHAT SHOULD I DO? , HOW SHOULD I PROCEED, SHOULD I DELETE MY BURNER EMAIL ID LINKED WITH THAT ACCOUNT? , SHOULD I DEACTIVATE MY INSTA ACCOUNT?

TL;DR got bored talked to stranger online, shared pics, they threatened me and asked for ransom, gave them my reddit account because they asked, in a really bad state of mind and don’t know what to do