SOURCE: Reddit - r/Pune
CITY: Pune
TITLE: Got Scammed while looking to rent a flat on housing.com
AUTHOR: Hypnos101
DATE: 2023-01-08
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/pune/comments/106ek9y/got_scammed_while_looking_to_rent_a_flat_on/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hey everyone! 

As I am looking to move to Pune, I was looking for a 1bhk furnished flat and like most of the people who are on a search like this I started looking at different apps like No broker, 99acres.com and [housing.com](https://housing.com)

And I found one that I loved 12k /month with no security. Seems shady looking back at it but at the moment justified it by thinking it's in the outer areas of Pune and hence the decent rent and no security.

I proceeded to contact the owner, "Rakesh Sharma" was the guy's name. He came across as a decent person on the phone calls and answered all my queries and whatnot. He told me to get a visiting card made in my name if I am interested and the flat will be booked in my name until I visit and take my decision. He further reassured me by saying this payment is refundable if I don't like the flat and If I do then he will just tally this with the rent. I was like perfect. Everything was sorted but something in my gut kept pointing to it as if something wasn't right.

So instead of making the expensive trip to Pune to check out this apartment. I thought why not ask my friend who lives in Pune to check the flat out on Sunday and give me a video call to show me the interior. If I don't like it I can decline the offer and get my money refunded.

Now comes Sunday and my friend goes to the address given which was Adi Skyline, wakad. I inform the owner "Rakesh Sharma" and that guy tells me If someone else is visiting he will need a visiting card in his name. I was like I have already paid for one. He is like I used your I.D. to create that one but the other person will require one with his own. I am like sure. But then he asked me to send him 2000 again for this visiting card. After being reluctant for a while I decide to pay. After the visiting card is made someone calls me acting as the building manager who needed to verify this visiting card and to do so he wanted me to make a payment of 5010 /- out of which 10/- will be cut and the rest (5k) will be sent back to me instantly. I flipped. started cursing the fuck out of that guy. I told him I am not interested in this flat and I want my money back he started cursing back and cut the phone. I kept calling later he picked up and said I will need to pay GST of 560/- to him and then he will send me my money back. I told them I am not paying shit, after a bit of a back and forth, and inorder to save whatever money I could I told him to cut the GST from the money they have and send me the rest back. He said No can't do that. I lost it. 

I have filed a complaint at the cyber cell branch of my city. I was careful enough to ask him for more photos that weren't posted on the ad itself and the personal I.D. of the owner. So I have an aadhar card of "Rakesh sharma". I don't think that's legit but yeah. I have that and all the transaction screenshots. Also, he accidentally sent me a visiting card of the last person who visited I called them and they told me they got scammed for 11k (call me fucked up but I was relieved that it was just 4k for me)

This post was to spread awareness and to get suggestions on what can I do about this? 

I don't really care about the 4k in the bigger scheme of things but it sucks to be on the other side of such an obvious scam.

&amp;#x200B;

TLDR : Made payments of worth 4000 /- for visiting cards for a flat I liked and found on [housing.com](https://housing.com) and Got scammed by the owner.