SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kolkata
CITY: Kolkata
TITLE: Teacher Recruitment Scam in West Bengal - We need to change things
AUTHOR: aniruddha_maiti
DATE: 2022-07-25
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/kolkata/comments/w7pw59/teacher_recruitment_scam_in_west_bengal_we_need/
--- POST TEXT ---

RECRUITMENT SCAM : LET US ASK THE RIGHT QUESTION

Education minister of the West Bengal government has been arrested by the financial crime investigation agency for allegedly taking part in corruption related to teacher recruitment for state run schools. The amount of money unearthed in the course of investigation is eye-popping. It still needs to be seen whether the recovered money has indeed some connection with the alleged corruption or not. However, in any case, the development has presented an opportunity for deliberation around the process by which our governments at different levels recruit manpower. Such deliberation is necessary because in the midst of heated political debates and rhetoric, I fear, the important economic questions are being overlooked. 

GOVERNMENT IS PAYING WELL ABOVE MARKET RATE

It is a well known fact that people, especially in a state where private-sector jobs are not plentiful, prefer government sector employment. The preference is to such a high degree that often people are ready to pay bribes in order to secure employment in a job where the government is the employer. The reason, on the surface, might seem obvious. Public sector jobs, although not high paying, are stable and secure. The promise of a guaranteed salary at the end of each pay cycle until retirement is indeed difficult to resist. However, this promise of job security is not the only reason for such a preference for government jobs. Job security is only one aspect of it. A careful thinking would reveal another, and perhaps a much relevant and deeper, aspect of government sector employment. This second aspect is that there exists a huge mismatch in terms of supply-demand based salary structure in almost all types of jobs provided by the government. The large number of applicants for any government job, and the willingness of people to pay bribes in order to secure such a job indicate that the government is paying a lot more than it needs to. In other words, the government is paying well above the market rate to its employees. Here, I assume teachers in the state run schools are government employees because ultimately they are paid by the state government.

CURRENT SYSTEM  REGARDING GOVERNMENT EMPLOYMENT

Governments recruit people to provide service to its citizens. As the money is ultimately paid by the taxpayers, it is naturally expected that the government should try to provide maximum service while spending a minimum amount. Rationalizing the expense on manpower is one key component in this regard. However, for decades, successive governments, both at the central and state level, have failed to do what is expected of it. Lack of good ideas, reluctance to think outside of the box, and policy inertia have all aided the creation of a system which is immoral, economically inefficient, and above all, prone to corruption. 

CURRENT SYSTEM IS IMMORAL

The current system is immoral because a government employee is being paid more than the normal market rate and this is an injustice to those who want to serve in the government sector at a lower rate. If we consider the economic history of our country since independence, until the liberalization happened in the 1990s, the consumption economy of our country was entirely driven by the salaries that the government pays to its employees. To this day, our consumption economy is largely dependent on the salary of our government employees. The dependence is perhaps not as much as it used to be three decades back, but the dependence is more than what it should be. As a consumption driven economy, it is often argued that large expenditure on salaries helps consumption. However, even if we accept such an argument to be valid, it does not make sense to restrict the guaranteed salary benefit to only a small group of people. It would rather make sense to recruit as many people as we can so that the benefit gets spread out more evenly. For instance, we can recruit three times more human resource by paying one third to each employee. Such an approach would be moral because more families would then be covered by the security net of guaranteed government salary. 

SOME ARGUMENT IN FAVOUR OF HIGH PAY OF GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES

Some wise people often argue that the government needs to pay its employees a high amount so that those employees do not revolt. Such an argument is based on the assumption that somehow the government 'controls' the public using government employees. It is argued that unless the employees are rewarded handsomely, in times of crisis, those employees would not remain loyal to the system and anarchy would set in. I think in a liberal democracy like India such an argument is not valid. The primary purpose of government employees in India is to provide service to the citizens. If we, the people, can not protect our constitution and maintain the law and order ourselves, there is doubt that a few government employees would be able to do that, no matter how handsomely they are paid.

CURRENT SYSTEM IS ECONOMICALLY INEFFICIENT

Now, coming to my second point, the current system is economically inefficient because taxpayer's money is getting misused. We could have paid a lot less to a government employee and still secure the same amount of service. Alternatively, we could have provided more service by spending the same amount that we are spending now. It won't be far-fetched to imagine that for every government job, we can find someone equally qualified and capable who is willing to take that job at 50% rate of the salary that we are paying now to the current employee. 

CURRENT SYSTEM IS PRONE TO CORRUPTION

Finally, the current system is prone to corruption because the current system is not market driven. The system benefits those who somehow manage to secure government employment and the system is unfair to those who can not. As the system benefits disproportionately to some people, people are ready to provide bribes to get such disproportionate benefits.  

WE NEED PRAGMATIC RECRUITMENT PROCESS

A large nation which is aspiring to become a higher middle income economy can not afford to allow such an immoral, inefficient and corruption prone system to carry on forever. The question is, what changes can we bring in to ameliorate the problems we are facing in the government recruitment process and the disparity with the market rate. Well, the only solution is to respect the market. and allow price discovery. For instance, in case of West Bengal teacher's recruitment, against, say, fifteen thousand vacancies, we could have selected forty five thousand potential candidates through a transparent selection process. Given the number of aspirants, historically, is many-fold, such a selection would still ensure that all the selected candidates are more or less equally qualified to teach. Once forty five thousand potential candidates are selected then a blind online bidding or counseling could have been conducted where each selected aspirant would quote their salary expectation. The idea is, candidates with lowest quotes would be selected and paid as such. Such dynamic price discovery would make sure that the teachers are paid at the market rate. Given the current economic condition of the state of West Bengal, it is possible that the government might be able to recruit three times more teachers if such a pragmatic recruitment process is adopted.

LET US DO WHAT NEEDS TO BE DONE

Several questions can be raised regarding the proposed pragmatic price discovery approach. How about the problem of exploitation in such a system? Won't it be unfair if an aspirant teacher is forced to quote just five thousand rupees because he/she is in dire need of money? How about talent and merit ? If we focus on quantity won't we neglect quality?

Regarding exploitation, I agree that given the current dismal condition of our economy, such an exploitative scenario is quite possible. I am sure a lot of aspirants would quote in the range of five to ten thousand in the hope of securing a government job if the proposed system is adopted. I would like to make a few comments regarding this. First of all, if  we really see such a low quote, unfortunately, we have to accept that as the economic reality. We can do drama about a lot of things, but we can not do drama with money. If we earn 10 rupees, we have the ability to spend only 10 rupees, that is the uncomfortable truth, and we have to face that truth and work hard to improve our economic condition if we want to spend more. Similarly, in the case of government jobs, if people are quoting five thousand rupees then it is the economic reality, we have to accept that reality. Secondly, if we really want to disregard economic principles, then several work-arounds can be adopted. We might fix the lowest salary to a certain quantile of the quoted salaries. If we think that fierce competition to quote very low salary amounts is unavoidable due to the poor state of our economy, then we might adopt a strategy where the bottom 10% of the quotes will be disqualified. Such a cut-off would prevent people from quoting unreasonable low amounts. 

Regarding quantity vs. quality, I argue in favor of the first one. Let us assume a tendering process for building a railway bridge. Do we see the ability to built quality product during tendering and award the project to some builder who can build most quality product? No we do not, we simply choose the lowest bidder. The same logic goes in the case of recruitment as well. Moreover, we are choosing the top people through a competitive examination and then asking for the quote at the final stage of recruitment. Therefore, the ineligible or incapable candidates would be filtered out in the first step itself.

The point is, if we are determined we can find ways to solve a problem, but the first step in that direction should be to recognize that there exists a problem and we have to also recognize that the current system needs to change. If we have that willingness and determination, other small details are not difficult to figure out. Since independence, a colonial mindset and absence of good economic policies have reduced India to poverty. Unless we start having a fresh look at the ways we are running this country, I am afraid, there is no hope for prosperity. We are dangerously running the risk of becoming a perpetually poor economy because our demographic dividend would not last long. 

WE ARE GOING INTO THE RIGHT DIRECTION - WE NEED TO ACCELERATE NOW

There is optimism though. It is not that the governments at central and the state level have not recognized the problem related to public sector employment. To reduce the lucrativeness of government service, the pension scheme has been done away with for central government jobs. In the case of West Bengal, the state government has almost stopped recruiting for permanent government jobs. In place of permanent government jobs, the West Bengal government has introduced a large number of temporary jobs such a Shiksha-Bandhu (employees who help to bring back students who left schools), Vana-Sahayak (employees who takes care of natural resources such as trees), Parsha-Shikshak (teachers who teach a few classes and paid a fixed amount), Asha-Karmi (health and family welfare department employees), Civic police (temporary employees who control trivial local law and order) etc. A garden variety of such low paying, but secured jobs are created by the state government. The pay scale of such jobs is not much. They approximately range from five thousand to ten thousand rupees. It is not my intention to argue that such a salary provides a respectable living standard to people, but we have to accept that it is better than nothing. I am not sure if the state government made a conscious policy decision while creating these jobs or not. It might be possible that regular government recruitment processes have been bogged down with multiple court cases and thus the state government has been forced to create these jobs. People, including the opposition parties in the state often mock and deride these jobs. However, it is a reality that, in spite of being low paying, a large number of people aspire to have such a job in West Bengal because such employment ensures a secure income for the family at the end of the month. If at least one person from a poor family secures such a low paying employment, the economic condition of that family improves drastically. To prove my point, let us consider a family of three adults and two minors. Let's say, two of the adults are working age and one of them has secured one such low paying government job. Now, let us holistically consider other government assistance such as Pradhan Mantri housing scheme, assistance for education to girls, centrally sponsored Atal pension scheme, assistance to small farmers, ration schemes, health insurance schemes etc. Additionally, we have to keep in mind that a large number of families in West Bengal possess some amount of cultivable land which is a source of a little additional income for the family. The credit goes to the land distribution of the previous Left-front government. Now, if the family does not have such land, then the 100 day work guarantee scheme can substitute that deficiency. Considering these three things, a low paying government job, a variety of other assistance from the government, and a little additional income for the unemployed adult from either land or the 100 day work scheme, it is safe to argue that the five person family would not live in extreme poverty. In fact, a large number of families in West Bengal are doing better than ever before due to the low paying jobs that the government has created. The state government is able to provide such low paying jobs in large quantities because they cut down on high paying permanent government employment. The pragmatic policy of the state government has unarguably helped to create a more inclusive society where a large number of families are feeling a sense of financial security. These families are dreaming to have their children educated, dreaming for a better future. Some experts are confused with the result of the West Bengal assembly election because the performance of the state government is perhaps below average in all other economic aspects. However, by adopting a pragmatic policy regarding government employment, the state government succeeded in creating a largely happy society which has a sense of financial security. This in itself is a big achievement. People, in turn, rewarded the political party handsomely during the assembly election. The ruling party also got benefited by rampant favoritism and nepotism in these recruitments and succeeded in creating a loyal cadre base. If we ignore this corruption aspect, my point is, economically the policy of creating low paying government jobs is beneficial.

LET US BE CREATIVE AND BE OPEN TO CHANGES

 If only we could allow ourselves to debate honestly regarding government employment, I believe we can take some lessons from the limited success that the West Bengal government has achieved with limited resources. We just have to replicate the model for all types of government jobs. Our economy is just at the three trillion dollar level now. As we prosper more, I am sure, more and more low paying government jobs could be created and more families can be brought under the umbrella of secure government employment. We should accelerate this process by adopting a price discovery approach in all kinds of government jobs. It is easier to blame a particular person or a particular political party for corruption, but it would not solve any problem. Tomorrow, some other minister, bureaucrat, or group of people would engage in the same types of corruption if the foundation on which the current system is running is not based on sound economic principles. If we really want to stop corruption, we need to fix the foundation. Let us correct the foundation in a way that is logical.