SOURCE: Reddit - r/Bengaluru
CITY: Bengaluru
TITLE: Auto guy tried to scam me - New technique
AUTHOR: sand_plug
DATE: 2025-03-22
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Bengaluru/comments/1jh98s3/auto_guy_tried_to_scam_me_new_technique/
--- POST TEXT ---

Story might be too long. (TLDR below)

This happened on 17th March at around 2 am. I (25M) was returning from a friends place in Jayanagar back to my place in Marathahalli. The uber fee showed ₹475 and the Auto person turned up at the location. As I got into the Auto, the driver asked me to cancel Uber and give him the cash straight away. I accepted as i thought nothing much of it at the moment. The whole way he kept lamenting about how he is being underpaid and he is taking me 22km and getting a very low fee, just usual auto guys complaining. 

As we arrived at the destination and I got off the rickshaw, i asked him for the scanner, to which he replied, “Take my number”. I wrote his number down on paytm and confirmed his name to him, paid up and walked away. Now comes the weird part. He calls me back and tells me that the payment has not yet come. I show him my Paytm and he tells me that he doesn’t have Paytm and that i need to do the payment again. I told him that i have done UPI and it has gone straight to his bank account. I see thar his phone has HDFC and SBI bank accounts but my transaction has gone into YesBank. When confronted about this, he says that he doesn’t have a YesBank account even though it is the exact same name and mobile number. He also said that this has happened earlier and that the payment will come back into my account. If it didn’t come, he would credit it back the next day. I installed YesBank app on his phone and turns out, his mobile number is indeed registered with YesBank.

Things got a little heated but luckily there were 2 men from the neighbouring building that got out on their bike for a late night booze run and decided to help me. They convinced him that the money has gone into his Yes Bank account and that if he goes into YesBank, they will sort out the account for him. This happened after a whole 2nd round of investigation by the 2 good samaritans. This stupid dickhead of an auto driver thought they would take his side because they were kannadigas too, but little did he know that I am from karnataka too. Just because of my slow Mangalore kannada, he thought i was from the north and wouldn’t understand whatever he said.

But I know for a fact that this MF knew this all along about his YesBank account. I know this because we exchanged numbers and details and he still hasn’t called me. He would’ve called me repeatedly if he hadn’t located his money.

I know this story is not exactly a very entertaining story but that is because the 2 men decided to help me and i have left out a lot of the details. It was about to get very heated right before they helped me and who knows how that could have gone. I am a petty person and i want to add his details here because Uber has removed his profile after i reported him. 

Name : VIJAY KUMAR K J
Mob no : +91 98443 27824

Someone please tell me how to doxx him without putting in too much effort.

TLDR : AutoRickshaw driver tried to scam me at 3AM by having a bank account liked to Paytm but no trace of it on the phone. So that he could register double payments by telling the person that the amount paid will come back into their bank account due to some glitch. Luckily 2 people helped me get out of this sticky sitch.