SOURCE: Reddit - r/Mumbai
CITY: Mumbai
TITLE: Possible insurance fraud? Looking for advice..
AUTHOR: [deleted]
DATE: 2015-05-13
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/mumbai/comments/35tvqj/possible_insurance_fraud_looking_for_advice/
--- POST TEXT ---

Will post a tl;dr at the bottom.

Last december I had sold a sealed phone (the box was not opened by me yet) to a guy via quikr. Before we made the transaction he wanted to make sure that the phone was properly sealed and stuff. His backstory is that he is very unlucky with phones and has damaged a lot of phones previously. He showed his last phone to me which had a damaged screen. Like completely shattered. And so with this phone he wanted to get an insurance on it. That is why he needed it to be sealed. 

Since the actual bill was in my name he had to get the insurance on my name as well. I never actually had to go to the insurance place, he just informed me on the phone that he had taken the insurance in my name. I kind of wasn't ok with all this, because he should have asked for my permission first, and i told him as much at the time, but it was done and we couldn't have done anything about it.

So now here we are in May, and i get a call from him today that he dropped his phone and the screen is broken. He told me he's gonna go ahead and claim the insurance to get it repaired and just needs my co-operation with the procedure with the insurance company.

I'm kind of suspicious about this guy. Twice he has damaged his phone. And both the times it was a broken screen. I wonder if he's found a way to dupe insurer's using some - I don't know - a fake broken screen sticker of some sort! If that's the case then I absolutely do not wish to co-operate with him in this fraud!

Can anyone spare some advice about what I should do? Maybe somebody who has gone through a mobile phone insurance claim procedure, and has an idea about how stringent the checking is?

tl;dr - Sold phone to guy who has history of damaging phones (broken screen). He took an insurance on the phone, which I sold him, in MY name. After 5 months, he has damaged the said phone (broken screen again!). He's asking for my co-operation with the insurance claim. I'm suspicious about him. I just want advice before I help him.