SOURCE: Reddit - r/Ahmedabad
CITY: Ahmedabad
TITLE: Victim of a data entry scam
AUTHOR: Outrageous_Author_14
DATE: 2024-07-09
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/ahmedabad/comments/1dz68yg/victim_of_a_data_entry_scam/
--- POST TEXT ---

Completed my 12th and applied for college so wanted to do part time to earn some money before college start.I have applied for different jobs,but all of them asked for security deposit.But I felt they were fraud.

Then I received a call from Alpha mark work pvt ltd.They asked me to complete 700 forms in a span of 7 days.They told no need of investment.We just have to complete the work on time ,then 25 rupees per form and 17500 should be given.If we want to cancel within 24 hours we have to pay 1000 rupees and 85% accuracy which means 630 out of 700 forms need to be correct.Only this they said and asked me to register.

I have given all my details,adhar card,email, signature.They made my id.And i got a verification call.they said the same thing and nothing more.Later I asked about any agreement.They said after registration u will get the agreement.

Later I saw the agreement and took screenshot.I started my work and completed it in 2 day before time and submitted them.While I was working I thought may be it can be a fraud,So I called and recorded their calls for evidences.They said only 90% accuracy and nothing more about how to write the forms and all.

And today,I got a message.They said all my there is few mistakes in my forms that they were wrong.They sent a legal notice and said I have to pay penalty of 3900 for this to regenerate my ID.If not case will be filed in supreme court.I was tensed at first.But I argued with them as my data was correct as shown.Then they said u did not give correct space between words you stayed logged in while we asked you to logout when not working or you have submitted blank form etc.I said did u give any training,I worked and there is nothing you did.Why should I pay you??I suppose u don't have any loss.You did not ask any qualifications and with simple adhar you gave job.Now asking for penalty.Even I have evidences and proofs I am not going to pay anything,I said this.they started scolding me and told I am a fraud and all.

So now i went to my nearest police station and filed a case onto them they said it’s a fraud and you did good job informing us about this lets see what will happen hoping for the best

i did pay them 4k but after filing case on them the officer said that they will freeze that payment and it will be refunded back to me. many people fall in their trap.They get afraid seeing the notice and pay them to close the case so i did.Please don't do that.Its your hard earned money.These people can only threaten you,they can't make a case because they are wrong on their side.I don't know how people are working in that way by betraying others and making money.

I have dealt with this ,so I don't want others to fall in that trap.Be careful with online jobs ,Most of them are fake and if they ask for security deposit or investment do not do that.

Get a job with your qualifications and be happy.

Thank youuu.