SOURCE: Reddit - r/Vadodara
CITY: Vadodara
TITLE: Possible SCAM Alert in Malls
AUTHOR: comphunk
DATE: 2025-02-01
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/vadodara/comments/1if7y3p/possible_scam_alert_in_malls/
--- POST TEXT ---

So in last 1 month I had 'Chance' encounters with 2 Strangers, who observed my posture and approached me to ask If I needed help

1. Zudio in Alkapuri
2. DMart near St Kabir

Stranger 1: He approached me and asked If I had back pain. He seemed genuine, well dressed etc and convinced me that his Dad was cured by a Doctor who only does home visits. Dr will visit and on the spot, will tell if condition is curable or not. Seemed Iffy. He took my number and told that his mother will call me and provide Dr's number. Post that, when I observed him, he didnt seem to be buying anything.

His mother called me same daya nd gave Dr's number.

AFter few days I called the Dr - Dr Zariwala. Didnt pick. Fair enough. An hour later his assistant called and asked me to send medical history. I briefed.

A day later 'Dr Zariwala' called. He informed that he does 'PROCEDURE'. He opened up and told that he is UNANI Dr and would treat me by sucking out impurity from my blood. and procedure takes 1 hr and will be done at my home. He claimed to be in Ahmedabad that day and aksed for fixing appoint for 2 days later.

Fees he mentioned 2K INR, If i remember correctly. he also said, if its not curable, he will not do the procedure. For procedure he didnt mention any fee.

I never called him back. END OF STORY. Till may be 1 days later he called and I didnt pick up, having grown suspicios

 
Stranger 2: This guy approached me in D-Mart. And moment he asked me if I have issues in my neck/shoulder, I knew something was off. He too, didnt seem to having any cart or anyone else with him. well dressed etc. I politely refused to talk but he claimed that his father was cured by this this doctors treatment who is from Jaipur. Now for one moment, I though I should tell him the DRs name was Zariwala. And then I moved forward ignoring him. Then he insisted my relative that the Dr could cure my condition

Now this Cant be co-incidence. Seems to be same Modus Operandi. I have tried notifying Police of possible scam and if they could patrol malls for a few given days, they might be able to nab such people who are approaching stranger with medical aid. BUt tthey didnt listen

I think all this talk of deciding on the spot if condition is curable, is to asceratin a persons true financial status by visiting his/her home. YOu never know what these people could do or inject something in your body in name of removing impurity.

 
I looked up online and, needless to say I havent found any Dr Zariwala, Unani Doctor. But I did find a news where Senior citizens were scammed by Unani Dr of lakhs of rupees. One session of removing impurity cost 15K. They were operating in Delhi.

 
sorry for the long post, but if anyone notices such thing , please notify on this thread.