SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: Escaped Rapido Scam (at least I think so)
AUTHOR: Ankushsingh7
DATE: 2025-04-03
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1jqo7e8/escaped_rapido_scam_at_least_i_think_so/
--- POST TEXT ---

Today as usual I booked rapido bike from my office in Noida. 

The guy who booked the ride had 4.4 rating, generally I don't go with riders having less than 4.5 rating. But as I was getting late, I carried on) (1st Mistake)

The guy first texted me in rapido chatbox (don't cancel the ride).

It seemed okay to me, so I said okay bhaiya.

Then he asked me for my number on chat (first red flag), as I was not able to connect him through rapido inbuilt voice call.

So I gave him my number on Rapido Chat (2nd Mistake).

Then after a couple of minutes he called me and said I'm coming in 2 minutes, so I waited.

When he didn't arrived even after 5 minutes, I called him and he said I'm stuck I'm coming in 2 minutes. ( I got his number through previous call that I had).

Finally he came after waiting for 5 more minutes, he asked to give me the Otp to start, which I gave and he started the ride.

Within a couple of minutes of starting the ride, he said my internet is not working because of which I cannot see the route. (2nd red flag)

So he stopped the bike and acted like restarting the phone. (I was sitting at the back so I couldn't see what he did)

So I gave him the hotspot too through QR code scan (3rd mistake), then I don't know what he did in his mobile for some seconds and he started the ride.

By that time I was sure something wrong is happening, so I took out my phone and shocked to see that bike was shown at my pickup stop.

Immediately I asked him, bhaiya either you have not started the ride or something is wrong at your end as the bike was shown at my pick up stop ( it was never began from starting point throughout the ride).

He said I did, (when I gave him hotspot) and he said in a sarcastic manner that you also restart your phone.

I didn't restarted my phone and immediately closed all the app and switched off the hotspot.

During the bike ride he was continuously looking at the screen and touching his phone when we were on red lights (Remember ride was at my pickup stop throughout). So, I took the screenshot of the same picture.

When he noticed that I have stopped hotspot, he asked bhaiya why you stopped the hotspot?

I said I know the route there is no need of navigation.

Finally when the ride ended remember bike was shown at my pickup stop), he asked me to switch on the hotspot and make payment through QR code.

I told him are you thinking I'm a fool or what? And refused both the things. ( Hotspot and QR code sharing).

He pleaded to me, bhaiya please start the hotspot and make the payment, I have to end the booking.

I told bhaiya do this scams with someone else, to which he said I have not done anything.

I made the payment to him through cash as I didn't wanted to share my UPI details.

As I was leaving a bike stopped next to him, he asked the hotspot from that bike guy.

As I was furious with myself and him, I started going towards my home.

I don't know what he did, suddenly I received a message on rapido app to make the payment, but as my payment mode was cash and I had already made the payment so I ignored.

I don't know what happened after that, I got invoice too from rapido and the ride was shown completed.

I immediately reach out to rapido support to tell all this, but there was no option to complant for anything like this.

Then I chose driver harassed me option so a ticket was opened (as there was not any other option to choose and I wanted to make the company aware).

After 1.5 hours of raising the ticket, they reachout to me because I mentioned harassment, otherwise I believe they wouldn't have).

They asked what happened, then I narrated them the whole incident like this and said I might be a victim of cyber fraud or may become one. ( I'm still not sure whether I got scammed or not).

To which they replied, we will reach out to the rider and will take stringent action. I said if tomorrow something happens who will be responsible?

They said we assure you we will take necessary action at our end.

Then I asked him how will I get to know whether you have taken action or not?

They said, we will keep you updated through chat (remember I raised the ticket).

So far I have got no response on the chat, will keep you updated on the same.

But I'm still afraid what if he got the access to my phone or he might want to take revenge in future so what will I do?

So my learnings from this incident was

1. Never give any personal details (even phone number on chat).

2. Be cautious when you take rider having less than 4.5 rating.

3. Do not give pin to the rider before starting the ride.

4. Never even in any circumstances give the rider hotspot from your phone.

5. Never share your payment QR code with riders. ( use only when you make the payment)

6. if possible give payment in cash, I know it may sound old school but you don't want to take risk of getting scammed).

P.S. I have his Name and number and the screenshot of ride not moving. (But I don't want to share here, I'm still giving him benefit of doubt).

P.P.S. The conversation happend in Hindi, I wrote on English for better understanding of audience. 

Lastly, I still don't know whether I got scammed or not? (Although I hope and pray it wasn't a scam.)

But it was all fishy and my gut says that I was about to get scammed, but somehow managed to escape.

Thank you for reading such a long post. I didn't want anyone to make mistakes like I did. 

Stay safe.