SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kochi
CITY: Kochi
TITLE: (Trigger warning: SA, SH) The brutal rape and murder of a female doctor 
AUTHOR: Such-Plastic5163
DATE: 2024-08-15
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kochi/comments/1eswf5b/trigger_warning_sa_sh_the_brutal_rape_and_murder/
--- POST TEXT ---

I’m sure everyone has heard about this atleast on insta. But if you want more clarity regarding the issue and the timeline of events and how this is a direct threat to the women of India and how they are not safe in their own workplaces. 

1.	⁠Doctor on 36 hour duty. Has dinner at 2 am with junior interns and decides to close her eyes for a while in the seminar room of her hospital

2.	⁠At 11.30 am in the morning, parents of the female doctor receive a call saying their daughter is ill. When they asked for more info, the cops said “we are not doctors, we do not know”

3.	⁠The parents arrive at the hospital and meet the cops, to which the cops say your daughter committed suicide and they are made to wait for 3 hours to see her body

4.	⁠Meanwhile, the principal of the institution has started saying the female doctor had psychosis and has committed suicide

5. Parents see body which was being guarded by other doctors who refused to leave the body. They notice grave injuries on her half naked body, blood streaming down her eyes, glass shards crushed into her eyes, her hips split at 90 degrees, genital mutilation among various other injuries on a mattress soaked with blood. The doctors demand a judicial magistrate come and perform the inquest. The police record this case as an Unnatural Death(suicide).

6.	⁠Outrage across the state of West Bengal and the Indian medical community as the primary inquest report leaks and everyone sees the extent of injuries which could not have even been confused with suicide

7. The parents are allegedly hurried into cremating their daughter’s body. In fact, when they met the police for the first time; the police commissioner Mr Goyal allegedly told the parents don’t dig up this matter anymore as it’s not worth it and allegedly also offered a monetary settlement to cremate the body.

8.	⁠Parents cremate the body after primary autopsy. Medical students and doctors go on elective shutdown of medical services over India demanding safety in workplace and to deliver justice.

9. A suspect is arrested and his violent history put on display by the local law enforcement. The fellows of the fallen doctor cry foul over the attempted rush to close the investigation and irregularities in forensics. It is recorded before the High Court it would require “superhuman strength for a single person to perform injuries of this extent over 30-45 minutes under intoxication, hence there is a high likelihood of multiple suspects.”

10. 	⁠The principal, Sandip Ghosh resigns and acts like there’s a vicious campaign against him and claims victim was like his daughter. Within 4 hours of submission of his resignation, he is re allocated to another prestigious medical college within the same position, i.e principal. Students of said medical college lock the gates and refuse entry.

11.	⁠Meanwhile, case registered in State High Court. The states counsel says a completely transparent investigation is being done. When questioned if the principals statement has been recorded since 4 days of commission of crime and also because he is the reporter of the crime, the main loophole is found, his statement has not been recorded. Parents counsel says “he’s too powerful”. Court loses faith in state govt and local law enforcement and demands transfer of case to the highest investigative agency in the country, CBI. It is also announced the principal be placed on indefinite leave and his statement be recorded right away

12. While the CBI are flying into the state, the local govt and the college begin “renovations” within 20m of the crime scene claiming creation of new rest rooms. Students stop them and the work is halted

12.	⁠Various institiutions around India maintain elective shutdown of services

13.	⁠Women across West Bengal plan “Reclaim the Night” candle night vigil seeking justice for the victim on Aug 15 at 12 am, India’s Independence Day

14.	⁠Minutes into the peaceful vigil, goons disrupt violently while the police scurries off. The goons then destroy the vicinity of the college, tear apart the ground floor of ER, vandalizes the hospital and injures some doctors &amp; some police personnel while the doctors try their best to keep the patients safe.

15. Goons Uber off in their truck right when Mr Commissioner(who earlier told the parents not to dig up the case and is also allegedly accused in various other scams) arrives to the scene and promptly says this whole thing happened because of the media and because of what is being spread online. He proceeds to say how “sincere they have been in the conduct of the investigation”. This has already been disproved and documented by the citizens of Kolkata. As of today, not a single person of the mob has been apprehended. 

Note: only the verified facts have been mentioned. 

Even though this isn’t a kochi matter, as an Indian this is concerning. I’m sure every woman can relate.