SOURCE: Reddit - r/Hyderabad
CITY: Hyderabad
TITLE: Are Multi Level Marketing (MLM) scams common in software companies?
AUTHOR: arkady321
DATE: 2025-03-08
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1j6cr3l/are_multi_level_marketing_mlm_scams_common_in/
--- POST TEXT ---

Recently I was speaking to a junior software engineer in my company, one of the major ones in the software space in India. Seemed he had been targeted by a fellow employee into joining one of those MLM (Multi Level Marketing) scams. Basically this person (let’s call him the Recruiter) befriended this vulnerable guy (let’s call him the Target) over a few months, then convinced him to attend some online sessions that brainwashed him into joining this scheme that would make him see massive returns over time making him rich and then made him digitally sign some documents online in order to join this (so no paper trail as well). Being a fellow employee, the Target never suspected the Recruiter had any malicious intentions towards him.

The Target was then made to take out a large loan from his bank saying that he would see massive returns over time and after the amount was paid into this MLM scheme, the Recruiter then turned cold on the Target. The only way he could get his money back was to recruit fellow employees into this MLM scheme and so on. And being a junior with few friends and family to depend on in a large city, he was trapped.

The Target says he saw a spreadsheet on the Recruiter’s computer desktop that showed the names of fellow employees, whether they were recruited or not, he does not know. Plus, a pyramid diagram that kind of showed what the scam actually was.

Eventually through a lot of bargaining and arguing, he was able to get out of this scheme and get some of the money back with a threat of remaining silent else facing the consequences. Now, the Target is still on the hook to his bank for paying back the EMIs for the loan back. He has not received enough of his invested amount back from the Recruiter to close his bank loan out along with paying the early loan cancellation charges. So he is basically living month to month on his salary till he has enough to close out his loan. As you can imagine, this has also affected his mental health and his work performance was consequently suffered.

The Target told me that the Recruiter was earlier working for another major software company where he was doing the same thing before joining the current company. Since no one filed a criminal case against him, he passes the company background check and could get in. Basically since the both the Recruiter and Target are in on this scam, there is a reluctance to approach the authorities as well as the company HR. The Recruiter apparently boasted to the Target that even if he is kicked out of the current company, he would join another one and keep on perpetuating this scam there as well. The Recruiter seems to be part of a well oiled network.

This seems to be the tip of the iceberg. Seems these MLM scammers have found rich hunting grounds amongst the large software engineering community in India, many young engineers living alone away from their hometowns and earning large salaries without a family support base to help them. Have you seen something like this happening in your own companies or is this largely happening under the radar?

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multi-level_marketing

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pyramid_scheme