SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: Saw a Grown-Up Porter Delivery Guy Cry
AUTHOR: FearlessPipe5100
DATE: 2024-09-23
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1fn04h4/saw_a_grownup_porter_delivery_guy_cry/
--- POST TEXT ---

Recently saw a guy's encounter with a Zepto guy who broke down and thought of sharing a similar incident that took place some 4-5 months ago. 

I had portered some stuff (not heavy duty) from a friend who lived on the other side of the city. Even when i contacted him first, he seemed flustered and spoke something about the previous customer scamming him. He didn't seem to want to talk, so I let it be. When he arrived an hour later, I recieved the order and made the payment (paid 100 rs extra because I saw him on Maps fiddling around a lot in confusing lanes). 

He saw the amount and thanked me. He was preparing to leave when I asked about what happened with the previous customer. He sounded very low and explained how he had foolishly lost 2,000 rupees through an online transaction. Don't remember the specifics of the scam but he was an older guy, so it would be easy to fool him with virtual stuff. 

There were slight tears in his eyes, i could see it clearly through his helm. i asked him if he was okay. 

That's when he broke down. Said that 2,000 rupees is like a week's worth of profit for him. He said kya kar sakte hai bhai and again prepared to leave.

I always feel bad for grown-ups who still haven't got their big break and it shattered my heart somewhat. I asked him for his scanner. He insisted that he didn't need anything and that he'll get it back with God's blessing. But after my request, he finally relented. 

I gave him back his 2,000 rupees and he broke down again. He kept folding his hands and asking for my number (I think he didn't know he could send me back the money by tracing his previous transactions). 

I kept descalating the situation by telling him that it's his money and he didn't need to return anything. The way he cried was sincere and struck me deeply.

I learner the hard way that Delhi is not for the big-hearted and choose very carefully whom to help. But this dude sounded genuine.

What do you guys think? Even if the story was fake and he's a master orchestrator, I still think I wouldn't be able to rest well that day if I hadn't helped him.