SOURCE: Reddit - r/Chennai
CITY: Chennai
TITLE: Predator at VIT Chennai
AUTHOR: topeeornottopee69
DATE: 2024-07-14
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/1e2k0ui/predator_at_vit_chennai/
--- POST TEXT ---

Disclaimer - "I" in this post is my 20F friend who is facing this issue.

I 20F met a VIT Chennai final year student Anmol Sehgal on instagram. He started a conversation with me on instagram. We started texting hereafter for the next two months and discussed meeting up in Bangalore. (I live in Bangalore and he was doing an intership in Bangalore for a month)

We agreed to meet on the last week of July. 2 days before we were gonna meet, I received an anonymous dm telling me that my pictures and videos shared privately were being posted on a public discord server by Anmol.

He leaked my private dms and videos I shared with him on the discord server with over a 100+ members and made statements about raping me on our first date along with threats of committing sexual violence and secretly video taping me.

He also boasted about having video taped three other girls during intercourse. He boldy stated that I would be the fourth. I have the video evidence.

ONE OF THEM IS A MINOR AND HE POSTED THOSE EXPLICIT VIDEOS WITH HER FACE ON THE SERVER.

What we have done till now - Anmol does not know that I know about any of this. I continued on with the date plan as we discussed and ghosted him on the date.

I filed a cyber crime complaint against him with all the evidence of his chats compiled in a document.

I also reached out to his internship company HR and let them know about all of this with all the proof attached. We tried mailing VIT Chennai, but that wasn't fruitful (we got promotional emails back lol)

As of now, the public instagram page '@desi.cord' which had the link of the server has been deleted but we also found out that Anmol knows about the cybercrime report which could've been due to the cybercrime department contacting him.

I'm in need of any sort of help that can escalate this matter and to warn everyone about this predator who is roaming free on the streets.

Any help is appreciated, thanks in advance. If anyone has any resources or means to help us out, please reach out to me on dms. I will share more information.

[Screenshots of Discord chats ](https://imgur.com/gallery/QLQW2k4)

We have a lot more evidence apart from this