SOURCE: Reddit - r/Mumbai
CITY: Mumbai
TITLE: Be skeptical of jumlas, Mumbaikars, be very very skeptical!
AUTHOR: gcs8
DATE: 2017-02-08
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/mumbai/comments/5ssz9o/be_skeptical_of_jumlas_mumbaikars_be_very_very/
--- POST TEXT ---

Much is being sought to be made of the promised Right To Municipal Services Act by the BJP, but there's more than meets the eye.

A state-wide act that promised time-bound services was ushered in and then buried by the previous government, and Fadnavis resurrected it as he had promised to do so during the 2014 Assembly Elections campaign. But then it only served to duplicate what was already there. Why? Optics.

&gt; As citizens hail Devendra Fadnavis for his enthusiasm for bringing out a Right to Services Act, an eminent activist has written to the Chief Minister, saying he need not come out with a new Act as there is one already and it only needs strict implementation.

&gt; The Government Servants Regulation Of Transfers And Prevention Of Delay In Discharge Of Official Duties Act, 2005 (Act 21 of 2006), which is being termed as Right to Services Act by activist, has been around for a while, according to former central information commissioner Shailesh Gandhi. The previous government had brought rules for it in November 2013.

&gt; “Everything, including the citizen’s charter, exist in the Act. He should just say that I will hold the top man responsible if the Act is not implemented. Rest will fall in line. At the end, implementation matters. If they implement this Act, the face of governance will change in five years,” said Gandhi, who has written to the CM on this.

&gt; Sections of the Act mandate fixed tenure of officers, requires all departments to make a citizen's charter, and sets a 45-day deadline for action on a file. It also states that in case a matter requires consultation with other departments, decisions must be done within 90 days.

&gt; “If decisions are not taken within the specified period, it talks of disciplinary action against the responsible officer in a time-bound manner. This means no officer can delay the response to a citizen’s application, representation or complaint for over 90 days. This also covers decision-making with respect to all government working and is a powerful act which could have as much impact on governance as the Right to Information Act,” said Gandhi.

[Source: Rules for right to services already there, implementation key: Shailesh Gandhi, November 2014](http://www.dnaindia.com/mumbai/report-rules-for-right-to-services-already-there-implementation-key-shailesh-gandhi-2031312)

After BJP earned brownie points for having 'done something', it emerged the Act was in fact quite insipid:

&gt; The draft is "completely toothless" and has weak provisions, Shailesh Gandhi, RTI activist and former Chief Information Commissioner said. “There are talks of penalties but no mention of the degree of penalties. There are no time periods clarified. It is kept deliciously vague,” Mr. Gandhi said. In its present shape, the Bill would not function. 

&gt; An existing act-- the Maharashtra Government Servants Regulation of Transfers and Prevention of Delay in Discharge of Duties Act of 2006 — already focuses on the timeline bound service delivery to citizens and fixed tenures for government officials, but has been ineffective.

&gt; Mr. Gandhi takes a jibe at the lack of awareness about such provisions. Mr. Gandhi said the Transfers and Delays Act 21 (2006) was almost relegated to a “confidential act.” “Government officials don’t know anything about it, the citizens don’t seem to know about it.” Mr. Gandhi said.

[Source: 'Maharashtra Right to Services Bill vague, ineffective', February 2015](http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/maharashtra-right-to-services-bill-vague-ineffective/article6883185.ece) 

Some civic activists were apprehensive that it could even do much damage to the cause of the ordinary citizenry:

&gt; The Devendra Fadnavis-led Bharatiya Janata Party government’s decision to issue an ordinance to operationalise the Right to Service Act in Maharashtra has evoked a sharp reaction from activists.

&gt; They say that if the Act is enacted in its present form, it will have “disastrous results” on the delivery of public services.

&gt; The speedy enforcement of this showpiece legislation has been a hobbyhorse of the Fadnavis government ever since the BJP came to power after the 2014 Assembly polls. It had remained a non-starter under the erstwhile Congress-NCP government that introduced the Act in 2000. “The Act is riddled with loopholes in its current form. It only serves to strengthen bureaucracy. The BJP government has not bothered to repair the errors in the Act introduced by the former Congress-NCP regime,” city-based RTI activist Vijay Kumbhar told The Hindu.

&gt; Activists have strongly objected to the fact that the Right to Service Act in Maharashtra provides for no independent or impartial appellate mechanism, concentrating power in the hands of civil servants who would constitute the recruitment pool of chief commissioners.

&gt; The first and second appellate mechanism under this Act vests with senior officers of the same public authority or department, while the third appeal lies with the Right to Public Services Commission.

&gt; “It effectively means the first and second appeals will be heard by working ‘babus’ and the third by a retired ‘babu,’” Mr. Kumbhar said.

&gt; Given the track record of Maharashtra’s bureaucracy, too many appeals would surely frustrate the common citizen, said activist Vivek Velankar.

&gt; The wording is another contentious issue, observe activists, pointing out that Section 4 of the Act, which stipulates that “subject to legal, technical and financial feasibility, every eligible person shall have right to obtain public services in the State,” evokes much vagueness.

&gt; Further, there is no provision of any compensation or cost if applicant does not receive desired service in stipulated time, said Mr. Kumbhar. Also missing under Section 10 of the Act is the penalty to be paid by the designated officer who fails to deliver the service.

&gt; “If the penalty provision is not fixed in the Act, civil authorities will time and again try to minimise it or remove it completely by notifications and circulars, as in the case of the RTI Act,” said Mr. Velankar.

[Source: Loopholes weaken Service Act, say activists, April 2015](http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/loopholes-weaken-service-act-say-activists/article7138928.ece)

Forget implementing it in one of India's most humongous and diverse cities that navigates through powerful pulls and pressures of various interest groups, the Act has not been implemented fully in the CM's own home town: 

&gt; Nagpur: Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis' ambitious Maharashtra Guarantee of Public Services Act 2015, also known as Right to Services Act, has been violated in his hometown itself. Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) has not notified 15 services provided to citizens under the new act within the stipulated period.

&gt; As per section 3(1) of the Right To Services Act, NIT was supposed to identify 15 types of services and notify them by publishing gazette notification within three months from date of issuance of ordinance. The government had issued the ordinance on April 28. It means NIT was supposed to notify the services on or before July 27. However, NIT has not notified services or implemented the act till now.

[Source: NIT fails to notify services, violates Right To Services Act, August 2015](http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/nagpur/NIT-fails-to-notify-services-violates-Right-To-Services-Act/articleshow/48321787.cms)

Not only that, it is the CM's own Home Department which is lagging behind in complying with the Act. There are indications that the much-feted Act is not serving the purpose it was thought it would:

&gt; Most letters and complaints to the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) pertain to the home department, according to past 20 months' information provided by the CMO under the RTI Act.

&gt; The info was given on an application made by RTI activist Anil Galgali. In his application, Galgali had sought details of the letters that the CMO had received. He had also sought information on whether the complaints or letters were resolved or given response.

&gt; As per the data, from November 2014 to June 2016, around 2,44,112 letters were received by the CMO. Of these, most pertain to the home department, followed by revenue, urban development, general administration and rural development departments. The number of letters and complaints relating to the home department stood at 71,475, revenue at 24,293, urban development at 15,388, general admin at 9,461 and rural development at 9,368.

&gt; Letters and complaints relating to the above-mentioned five departments summed up to 1,29,985, nearly 54 per cent of the total number of letters relating to 31 departments received by the CMO during the 20-month period.

&gt; "The CMO naturally receives letters against those offices that are not able to mitigate grievances of citizens. It means that they do not work and hence citizens keep writing to the CM. Since the government has the Right to Services (RTS) Act for delivery of services and grievance redressal, the number of letters should not be so high. It means, in a way, people are not getting what they want through RTS. The CM should ensure that RTS is implemented properly," said Galgali.

[Source: Most complaints to CMO relate to home department: RTI reply, August 2016](http://www.dnaindia.com/mumbai/report-most-complaints-to-cmo-relate-to-home-department-rti-reply-2247952)

So, what do we make of the BJP's brandishing of the promise for such an Act for Mumbai? The answer probably lies in the stated and unstated aims and objectives of the BJP - they want to ascend into power across all levels throughout the nation. So disconnected with the city is the ivory-towered BJP, that they had to invite ideas for their manifesto. On first look it does appear commendable but then look at their track record - they will go for the lowest hanging fruit and then once they get a snatch at power, will make brazen or sly U-turns. Their electoral history is replete with [such examples](https://np.reddit.com/r/india/comments/2opx9n/bjp_on_statehood_for_northern_karnataka_and/?ref=search_posts). Municipal Corporations were to be covered right in 2014, but most likely eyeing electoral gains, postponed till now so as to milk the issue maximally:

&gt; The Devendra Fadnavis led state government had in its first cabinet meeting, set up a committee to begin work on the sunshine law to guarantee time-bound delivery of government services to citizens and pull up errant public servants.

&gt; The bill will cover government departments and authorities, civic bodies like municipal corporations, zilla parishads, industrial townships, development authorities, institutions, government companies, co-operative societies controlled or financed by the state government and even NGOs receiving financial assistance from the state.

[Source: Right to Services Bill: Carrot for timely delivery and stick for errant officials, April 2015](http://www.dnaindia.com/mumbai/report-right-to-services-bill-carrot-for-timely-delivery-and-stick-for-errant-officials-2075963)

So, don't expect much even if the Act were to be passed somehow as the BJP is known to undermine civic causes in favor of secrecy and centralization of power:

&gt; The lesson in the 8th standard text book on Social Sciences of Rajasthan State Board schools was titled `Kanuno ki samajh’ (knowledge of Laws) and the lesson was about the citizens’ historic movement to bring in the Right to Information (RTI) legislation in Rajasthan. Led by Aruna Roy, the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan (MKSS) in village Devdungri of Rajasthan had sowed the seeds of an era of transparency and right to information, inspiring enough, for Rajasthan’s education committee to include it in the Social Sciences curriculum.
 
&gt; The Rajasthan government, however, seems to think that this knowledge would empower citizens of tomorrow, who may demand accountability from the rulers and thus may have decided to nip this education, in the bud. RTI has been removed from the Rajasthan text books. Activists across Rajasthan are piqued with this decision and are demanding an explanation from the state government.

[Source: Students have no Right to Know about RTI in Rajasthan! May 2016](http://www.moneylife.in/article/students-have-no-right-to-know-about-rti-in-rajasthan/46965.html)

Half-truths, outright lies and obfuscations come easy to the Merchants of Dreams:

&gt; The Kalyan-Dombivali Municipal Corp (KDMC) is yet to receive funds from the Rs6,500 crore package announced by Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis last year, reveals a reply received under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. However, the CM had told the Legislative Council in December that he was talking about the smart city project of KDMC and not separate package. 
 
&gt; According to the reply received by RTI activist Anil Galgali, Accounts Office and Public Information Officer (PIO) from KDMC said the Municipal Corp has not received any such funds from the government till date.
 
&gt; Ahead of the KDMC civic polls in October 2015, CM Fadnavis had announced a Rs6,500 crore package for the all-round development of Kalyan and Dombivli townships, during a campaign rally. For the 27 villages that were left out from the KDMC, the CM had promised a special package of Rs1,200 crore.
 
&gt; Galgali said he also filed an RTI query with the Chief Minister's office (CMO), which forwarded the RTI application to the Urban Development Department and it in turn forwarded it to the MMRDA. A reply is yet to be received, he added. 
 
&gt; "The CM should stick to his promises. The CM had promised people of Kalyan and Dombivali of development. But if the CM fails to adhere to this, it will tarnish his and the government's image and citizens from KDMC will feel neglected," Galgali added.

&gt; Interestingly, after criticism and accusation from opposite parties for breaching code of conduct, the CM backtracked. He said he never declared any package for KDMC and all he was talking during the Vikas Parishad organised by local unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was about the smart city project in the township. 
 
&gt; “I had never announced any package. I had announced the Smart City initiative. The KDMC has prepared a proposal of Smart City and I had spoken about that project. The government will approve the Smart City proposal sent by the KDMC, irrespective of whether it is of Rs6,000 crore, Rs7,000 crore or Rs8,000 crore,” the CM had told the Legislative Council in December 2015.

[Source: Kalyan Dombivli still not received the Rs6,500 crore package announced by the CM, March 2016](http://www.moneylife.in/article/kalyan-dombivli-still-not-received-the-rs6500-crore-package-announced-by-the-cm/46009.html)

#Be smart and don't take the bait, Mumbai !