SOURCE: Reddit - r/Ahmedabad
CITY: Ahmedabad
TITLE: I am kicking off my own storytime gig.
AUTHOR: ConsumedByDeath
DATE: 2023-08-05
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/ahmedabad/comments/15ibbha/i_am_kicking_off_my_own_storytime_gig/
--- POST TEXT ---

So I see that the sub is being kept alive by folks posting personal stories and anecdotes, so I thought it'd be nice to share some of my own. 

I was 17 when I went on my first date. It was with a girl I met at the board exam center. To say it in the least crude way possible, she was pretty attractive and I couldn't believe my luck when we began talking. My exams went for a toss and I scored a meagre 40 odd percent, but I was happy to land a baddie and couldn't wait to repopulate the hood. 

Things were going well for a month or two. I didn't even own a phone, but I'd make do by keeping in touch with my mom's. To say that my parents were frugal with giving me an allowance of any sort would be an understatement cause no such concept existed in my household. 

So when the time came around to wine and dine her, I was given 200 bucks. I began to brainstorm ideas with my friend and we decided that I'll take her to the Gathiya Rath near Nehrunagar circle, owing to the fact that she was Gujju. I thought it was a brilliant idea at the time, and while she was a bit peeved by this I thought the date was going pretty well. 

Being the ever so giving gentlemanly soul I am, I got her like 100 rupees equivalent of chorafali and some dhokla and fafda. The evening was moving along smoothly as we chattered about random shit, bits of chorafali and saliva flying around. By the time she ran her hands through her hair for the milliionth time, now shimmering in hues of yellow cause of all the dhokla juice and papaya chutney, she had transformed herself into some kind of proto-Aryan. She looked rather pretty that way, and I almost lost my eye when she inadvertently spat out a sharp bit of fafda while gossiping about a friend of hers who's apparently a hoe. It was worth it. 

Once we finished up, we began talking about the future. I was going to talk about the top ten most painless ways to die, but she brought up marriage and wanted to introduce me to her parents. I was like bruh, did I do this dating thing way too well?! I was petrified. I asked her if she likes me and she said, "arey buddhu, I lobe u." 

I immediately took this as my cue to run. Not exactly cause I am commitment-phobic, but cause I didn't know how to react to someone saying I love you to me in a setting where I am not being catfished online by a 64 year old repressed homosexual on a shady chat site. This was someone flesh and bones, presumably a cerebral cortex too, saying they love me and my brain couldn't process it. 

Tactfully, I changed the subject and started talking about me considering a career as a prostitute. I thought it would put her off, but she seemed amused and kissed me on the cheek. We ended the evening on a good note, and we continued to speak for weeks thereafter. She tried to arrange for me to meet her parents, but I kept putting it off until she got pissed at me, confronted me, found my answers lacking, and cut her losses. I wonder sometimes how she must be now, if she has kids attending JEE prep classes for nursery kids, if her husband is cheating on her with the dhobi's mom. 

I guess as is often the case, I shall never know. So yep, that's it for this one.