SOURCE: Reddit - r/Bengaluru
CITY: Bengaluru
TITLE: Subletting company, genuine or new scam in the market? 
AUTHOR: drums_of_liberation
DATE: 2025-01-13
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Bengaluru/comments/1i0635y/subletting_company_genuine_or_new_scam_in_the/
--- POST TEXT ---

Recently I posted my flat for rent on various online portals. Among the interested parties who contacted me, one was a "property management company" which wanted to sublet my flat. My "spidey sense started tingling" but I cannot be sure if this is a new scam, so I'd like to ask fellow Bengalurians for your opinion. Below are the details. 

The company called me on Sunday afternoon and explained their subletting proposal. They will sign a 2-year contract with me, and let out my flat to tenants. They sent me details of their company, including the office location. They also sent the rental agreement document. All of this looked genuine. 

They wanted to bring some interested tenants to see the flat the same day. I told them that the flat is vacant and locked, keys are only with me, and I don't live nearby. A few minutes later, they called again saying they will send a "Field Service Manager" to take the keys from me, show the flat to the tenants, then bring the keys back to me. 

I won't trust some random stranger with my keys and I had to visit that area anyway, so I told them I'll go to the flat at around 4 pm. They can bring their tenants to take a look if interested, which they agreed. 

At about 4 pm, I reached the place, then their "Field Service Manager" brought two separate couples one after other as interested tenants. Those people felt genuine. They worked at reputed IT companies. They asked many questions about the flat, amenities, locality, etc. similar to what most people ask when looking at a flat for rent.

About 15 minutes after the Interested tenants left the place, I got a call from the company that both the couples had liked the place and the company wants to "book" my flat. For which, they said they will immediately transfer ₹10000 to me. 

Somehow the speed at which they were pushing things felt uncomfortable. Moreover, I had purposely quoted the rent about ₹2000 higher than normal, but they didn't even negotiate on it. 

Then I told them I cannot accept their offer because "another tenant" had already given me a token amount so I cannot back out of that commitment. In response, they started "requesting" me to reconsider it because "their tenant had really liked the place". They even offered to raise the rent by another ₹2000.

Now given the significance of weekends for Namma Bengaluru's IT people, I understand the urgency of closing deals on a Sunday evening. But it still felt suspicious that they were offering me so much higher rent just to close the deal. To be clear, the couples were not related. The flat would be let out to only one of them, so it's not like the company would make profit through shared renting. 

Have you experienced anything like this before? What is the catch here that I don't see?

Thank you for your time reading this post.