SOURCE: Reddit - r/Indore
CITY: Indore
TITLE: Got scammed! Looking for a job in Indore BPOs
AUTHOR: badboishah
DATE: 2021-06-11
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Indore/comments/nxjuah/got_scammed_looking_for_a_job_in_indore_bpos/
--- POST TEXT ---

I was hired for a new start up from Indore, Offsider Global LLP, I applied in December and was selected to be waiting for the second round which happened in January then they told me the process will be starting in 15 days so be prepared and get yourself a laptop as it was required for WFH. I agreed to get a laptop because I knew I'll pay it off by my first salary itself.

I kept on waiting for months as the company hosted meetings to talk give HR, Payroll and other sessions, the process training eventually started by 12th April and kept on for 7 days then were asked to make notes and presentations, we all 12 people in my batch appeared for the presentation and passed it but the client trainer didn't showed up for further trainings and they kept on revisiting old stuff again and again. 

Then somedays later Offsider Global emailed us that their client has faced 1 million Euro loss due to covid and has decided to revoke its business from all 13 centers without any payment. They offered us 5k INR as of compensation for training period and offered us a new job, the new process was a total fraud because there was no basic pay only you get 8$ per lead you generate. I went through training of 3 days again and did calling for 3 days, the people did not wanted to buy the service and the job was hectic as I was hired for chat process and now I was a calling zombie.

I backed up and asked them if I quit now will I be paid my training amount, the director itself agreed before I was removed from whatsapp group of the process, thats it, that was my resignation or termination whatever you can name it. I waited 45 days as it was a FNF process and might take so days to be completed but now Offsider Global LLP Indore is denying it because it was mentioned in my annexure and offer letter that I'm not eligible to get a pay out if I'm absconded from the process.

Now I have wasted 5+ months with them and big Middle finger to the efforts I put into to the training. Also a 20k laptop to pay off and alot of disappointment. 

I'm looking for a new job in BPO sector in Indore. I have experience of a year on my hand, a WFH will work for me or I can join office as I'm vaccinated with first shot. Please suggest if any in your reach.

TLDR; Wasted 5+ months and have to pay 20k due to a start up from Indore, they denied paying any money which they before hand agreed to pay. Looking for a job in BPO sector Indore.

Edit : added company name.