SOURCE: Reddit - r/Chennai
CITY: Chennai
TITLE: Scammer in Chennai Central Station
AUTHOR: s13rw81
DATE: 2024-09-06
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/1faaqk8/scammer_in_chennai_central_station/
--- POST TEXT ---

I want to warn everyone who is travelling in and out of Chennai through Chennai Central Station about a scammer who asks people for money and disappears.

My cousin brother and his wife were travelling from Chennai central station on August 29 2024. Their train was at 10:45 AM from platform 9. I was there to assist them board the train. AT around 10:30 AM while we boarded the train and were securing our luggage under the seats one man, about 5'7 in height, round face, glasses in his 40s approached me saying something like my phone has fallen down and broke and i need some money etc etc.

At that time i was in mad rush to settle the seats and get down so i rudely told he i cant help him, i dont have time. He asked if he should wait i told him no, find someone else to help you. He left and i got down from the train and headed to the AC waiting room on the first floor of the station.

I myself had a train to Bangalore at 1:30 so i was sitting in the waiting room when all of a sudden i see this man walk in and have a seat nest to me. I was a bit scared because if he recognises me he might confront me for not helping him but then he was too busy doing his own stiff to bother about anyone around him.

In a span of 1 hour he used the toilets, took a bath and changed his clothes and then left.

When i got into my train for Bangalore i was seated in a chair car and I saw the same man approach an elderly couple right in front on my seat and started pressuring them for money with his story about how he broke his phone and needs money.

I got pissed off and suddenly asked the man sir is this your luggage on the overhead shelf? i was able to distract the man for a second and somehow managed to signal his wife not to give out any money.

The wife acted quick and stopped her husband from giving out more money. He had already given that scammer 300. Scammer was asking for 1000 and the man was willing to give that too. I directly intervened now, i asked that man a few questions like where he was going etc and how he plans to return the money etc. The scammer said he was also going to Bangalore and would return the money to the elderly man in Bangalore. I asked him do you have a ticket he said no, i will talk to the TT. He quickly shook everyone hand and left the area.

We discussed the man after wards and the elderly man said the way he spoke he thought he was a genuine person in need of help and he had totally blanked out.

So if you are travelling be very careful as these kinds of people, they take advantage of your absent mindedness and try to coerce you into making a quick decision.

He had a fake Aadhaar card in his hand, which he used to distract you from the real scam.