SOURCE: Reddit - r/Chennai
CITY: Chennai
TITLE: Recieved Money from stranger through wrong UPI transaction.
AUTHOR: wathaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
DATE: 2023-04-10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/12gsp64/recieved_money_from_stranger_through_wrong_upi/
--- POST TEXT ---

Two days back I woke up and unlocked my mobile, I was shocked to see some random stranger had mistakenly sent me ₹5000.
And it's not even December for someone to play secret santa with me. So I confirmed obviously it was money sent by mistake.
 
Since I was a good and honest guy, I was about to return the money.

While I was typing the upi pin, My favourite actor Rummy star Mr.Sarath Kumar's ad got telecasted in the TV.
It was an advertisement for bunglee rummy. And right after that Dream69 ad got played. 
Suddenly my genius brain got an idea, anyway I'm broke and have zero penny in my account without this 5k,and I'm gonna return the money, why shouldn't I use this money to gain some instant profit and return the money.

I haven't used the bunglee rummy and dream69 apps before and was kinda sceptical to use this. But My favorite actor and cricketer promote it, so it should be fine.

First I splitted the amount, 
2.5k for Bunglee Rummy;
2.5k for Dream69.

I played both the apps, and earned little amount at starting. It was quite fun and easy money at starting. Soon I started to realise I was actually losing money faster than I won.

It was just a fraction of time I lost all the amount to these apps. My favorite actor and cricketers gave false hope to me.

Man I feel to guilty for using someone else's money and losing it. 

I have zero penny in my bank account and clueless for next move. Will my bank know that I used someone else's money?
What will happen next guys? Will I go to jail? Will cops arrest me?

/s

~ Don't risk your hard earned valuable money to gambling and rummy.

~Double/Triple check the UPI number before sending money.

~Incase you get money into your account accidentally, contact your bank for help. and don't handle yourself ( There was a similar scam going on before)