SOURCE: Reddit - r/Varanasi
CITY: Varanasi
TITLE: Solution for tension and anxiety
AUTHOR: unityofreligions
DATE: 2023-02-01
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/varanasi/comments/10qlvms/solution_for_tension_and_anxiety/
--- POST TEXT ---

**Solution for tension and anxiety**

1.	I have not made any serious plan to create this world. I created this world just as a play only. I am not touched by any fruit of any soul. I didn’t spend any energy for this creation since I am beyond the worldly logic.

2.	I have created this world, which can’t even touch Me since it is totally unreal and I am totally real as per My absolute plane. From Me, the soul shall learn that it must also do any work without attaching itself to the work or to its fruit, in which case, such soul is also not touched by any work or fruit. The anxiety possessed by the soul in doing the work for getting the fruit makes the soul very weak and tortures the soul with high stress and tension.

3.	The soul is spending lot of energy in serious thinking before doing a work. The soul is also tortured very much by the attachment to fruit. If the soul does work without attaching itself to the fruit, the energy required for the work is very little and the soul will not become weak after the work. The energy supplied to a system is partly spent for the work and partly spent for the tension due to attachment to fruit. Lot of energy is spent in the excitement by the excessive attachment to the fruit and sometimes, no energy is available for the work. In such case, the work fails.

4.	Sattvam means the essence of inert energy that is transformed into awareness. Expenditure of awareness in the process of anxiety and tension through attachment to the fruit is the highest loss since awareness is very precious energy than inert energy and inert matter. The soul must learn to do every work without anxiety and tension by detaching itself to the fruit. The soul shall stay always in the balanced state treating both gain and loss of fruit to be equal. The souls shall do the work thinking that the fruit belongs to somebody else and not to itself, in which case, the soul is not disturbed by any tension. Selfishness is the main reason of all tensions. If the soul develops selflessness, even while doing selfish works, the soul remains undisturbed.

5.	The Veda says that the soul develops fear by which tension is created due to selfishness that draws limited boundaries of self and its family (Atha tasya bhayam bhavati ya etadudaramantaram kurute). Some people think that self is God for whom this entire world stands as family. For the sake of good spiritual progress, the concept of monism can be exploited about which God will never mind and in fact, gets pleased also. God becomes furious only when monism is exploited to do sins.

6.	The physical works need little energy only. The effect of physical work is very much beneficial for the health. The mental work needs lot of energy. If the mental work is in the form of tension, very enormous amount of energy is spent. The soul need not worry about physical and mental work if tension is absent. Desire is the root source of attachment to fruit, which leads the soul to commit sins. Hence, God Buddha advised us to eradicate selfish desire, which is the root cause of all sins and subsequent miseries.

7.	Yoga means several concepts. The first main concept is association with Satguru or human incarnation. Yoga comes from the root verb ‘yuj’, which means meeting. It also means the preservation of energy without wasting it so that the soul becomes highly energetic, which is the needed basis for all the three steps (knowledge, devotion and service with sacrifice).

8.	I am doing very huge works like creation, ruling and destruction of the world with full detachment and without any selfishness. I have infinite treasure of energy with Me just because I am detached from everything and selfless always. If this clue is followed, the soul becomes very efficient in doing responsibilities and also in doing spiritual efforts.

9.	Yoga means association of the self with balanced state (Sthitaprajna) in which, there is no attachment to fruit so that its gain doesn’t make the soul to be excited or its loss doesn’t make the soul to get depressed. Maintaining this balanced state with continuous association with it is called as Yoga as said in the Gita (Samatvam yoga uchyate).

10.	If this Yoga is used to succeed in worldly works to gain the fruits, which are enjoyed with selfishness only later on, in course of time, such yoga disappears because the selfishness still remains with the soul. Hence, the sacrifice of fruit to some extent at least in the beginning resists the soul from more attachment to selfishness. Even though attachment to fruit shall be destroyed for doing the work more effectively, if the fruit is not sacrificed at all, such Yoga will be destroyed soon. As the sacrifice of fruit increases, the selfishness decreases so that yoga is protected from total destruction.

11.	Even Patanjali, the founder of Yoga says that preservation of energy by controlling the mind from the desire to fruits and thereby avoiding tension is the Yoga. Sacrifice of work and fruit of work without selfishness makes the Yoga to become more and more powerful day-by-day. That yoga is exploited for the success of work and attaining the fruit. Without sacrifice of fruit, the selfishness gets more and more strong to destroy the yoga.

12.	However much, water may be pumped into the water tank, if the pipe line connected to the tank is leaking water through several holes, there is no use of pumping the water into tank. Similarly, if You don’t resist tensions, which are the leakage holes, there is no use of yoga, which is storage of energy and increase of pumping the energy into tank like soul. Unless You are energetic, You can neither win in this world nor can become fruitful in spiritual efforts.

13.	A person following the path of yoga doesn’t lose energy even on becoming emotional since the detachment exists in basic level. An ordinary human being looses lot of energy by becoming emotional since basically the attachment exists. The emotion spends very little energy due to basic detachment. The same emotion spends lot of energy due to the basic attachment. If You follow Yoga, You will succeed to attain the fruit and if You come back to the selfishness again in the enjoyment of fruit without any practical sacrifice, such yoga will disappear forever.

14.	If You earn the fruit and save it, You have a chance of becoming fruitful in future since there is a possibility of sacrifice of the fruit in the future at least. If You waste the energy in unnecessary works, such chance in the future doesn’t exist in Your case. Don’t waste energy in any unnecessary activity, which is another form of heavenly dancer to spoil Your penance for God.

15.	If the discussions are about Me, it is spiritual effort. Similarly, seeing the devotional cinemas. Similarly, reading devotional books. The direction is important and not the material of the path. Same lock and same key, but, if the key is in one direction the lock gets unlocked. If the key is in opposite direction, unlocked lock gets locked. Even if one is interested in discussions, cinemas and novels related to worldly issues, You can get the spiritual benefit if You are concentrating on the victory of justice and thereby victory of God, in which is no wastage of time and energy. You can convert a robber into Your watchman, if You can change the direction of his mentality!

16.	Detachment means detachment from work and its fruit and this is My state (Na Me Paarthaastikartavyam, Na maam karmaani..., Na Me karmaphale...). Detachment from fruit is proved by its sacrifice and not by selfish enjoyment, which is selfishness. People become selfless by getting detachment from fruit till the fruit is attained. Now, the attachment to fruit comes resulting in self-enjoyment of the fruit without sacrifice. Such detachment up to attainment of fruit and again attachment to fruit for selfish enjoyment is the exploitation of concept done for the success of work in attaining the fruit! This fails because once You are attached to fruit, in the next work, the attachment to fruit appears disturbing You with tension. Hence, You must put effort in sacrificing the excess fruit at least. By this, sin is also avoided, which always appears in earning excess fruit only.

17.	Arjuna was always with tension throughout the war whereas Krishna was with smile throughout the war. You may say that the war is connected to Arjuna and not to Krishna since Arjuna is fighting for his property. This is not correct because even the army of Krishna involved in the war is destroyed. If You take the internal war of all the relatives of Krishna killing each other, in such case also, Krishna remained with smile even though His relatives and even His issues were killed!

18.	Yoga means resisting the expenditure of energy to preserve it. This does not mean that the expenditure should be totally restricted. Money and energy shall be spent only in proper way and not in unnecessary ways. Greedy person stores money even without spending for necessary purpose and the stored money is finally stolen by thieves. Similarly, the stored energy without expenditure for proper purpose is stolen by death in the end. Proper purpose means the essential worldly responsibilities and spiritual activities.

19.	If You are unable to resist the unnecessary ways, try to find Me in those unnecessary ways so that it becomes the spiritual activity. The direction towards Me makes such unnecessary activity also as useful spiritual activity. For example, if You are seeing a social picture, feel that while the hero in that picture is trying to oppose injustice and to support justice, he becomes successful due to My grace and My power only. In every scene, whenever injustice is defeated remember that it happened due to My will only. By doing so, You are turning the social picture into devotional picture by changing the direction everywhere towards Me.

20.	If the soul is enjoying the social picture for just entertainment only, it has wasted its valuable time and energy. Such soul will go into the cycle of births of birds and animals, which simply enjoy the creation without thinking about Me at least in such enjoyment. The soul got that in which it is interested and hence, such cycles of births are not punishments since whatever is desired by the soul, it is given by its divine Father, who will never act in the line of revenge towards His issues.

21.	One can worship Me at any time in any place through any method. His interest and love in Me are the most important factors, which alone attract Me towards him/ her. A person, who has no real love on Me, is particular of time, place and method. This is covering the lack of love of the soul on God and deceiving itself. Such person likes to save energy and time for worldly issues using this pretext! Yoga is for every soul irrespective of caste, gender and religion. Gayatri means praying the Lord through songs and not reciting a Vedic hymn, which is in a meter called as Gayatri.

22.	God Shiva is having white Ganga river on the head, which means that one should have the white pure spiritual knowledge in the head. This Ganga river comes out from the foot of God Vishnu, which means that one should be filled with spiritual knowledge from top head to bottom feet indicating assimilation of knowledge becoming blood throughout the body. Some fools treat Shiva as low for keeping Ganga river born from the foot of great Vishnu on His head! They forget that such interpretation is impossible since the Veda says that Shiva and Vishnu are one and the same (Shivashcha Naaraayanah) and hence, the first interpretation is correct.

23.	The inhaled (Puuraka) air rich in oxygen is retained (kumbhaka) for some time inside the body so that the purification of blood takes place fully by using all the available oxygen in one inhalation. Expelling the inhaled air (rechaka) is equally important because the air containing impure gases must be also expelled out. This is the mechanism created by God and giving much importance to one step only is foolishness.

24.	Expelling bad gasses generated by indigestion and hyper acidity etc., is as important as the other two steps. The generation of bad gasses must be controlled by taking proper care in the quality and quantity of food taken based on the knowledge of medical science. This bad gas is called as vaata, which is said to be the root of all diseases (vaatokhilarogamuulam). If the desire of the tongue is controlled, most of the diseases are controlled. Prevention of disease is far better than its cure by medicines.

25.	There are three important factors in deciding the activities of soul in this world:- i) The influence of the thoughts of sub-conscious state on the soul, which is very powerful and this can be controlled or even totally avoided through true spiritual knowledge only. ii) The food taken by mouth and this can be controlled by spiritual knowledge only, which controls or even totally destroys the fascination of tongue and iii) the input of information into mind and this is also rectified by spiritual knowledge only through association with spiritual people.

26.	The above said three factors are responsible for all the activities of the soul that decide its fate. Spiritual knowledge is the most important fundamental medicine that gives the right direction to the soul to reach the right goal in right path. The knowledge given by human incarnation is unadulterated medicine, which is very powerful. I don’t need any fruit or any favour from any soul since I am fully contented with My infinite wealth, which is this creation. There is nothing, which is not attained or to be attained by Me as said in the Gita. I aspire for the fruit from the souls only to test their real devotion to Me and this is the basis of Krishna stealing butter from the houses of Gopikas. It was done to test their reaction. Some felt very happy and gave butter even secretly to Krishna in the way while going to Madhura city! Some complained to His mother asking that why He should steal butter when plenty of butter is in His house. The former went to Goloka and the latter were robbed by robbers when they were taken by Arjuna to his city! This means that storage of fruit for self-enjoyment only without some sacrifice at least, will result in total loss only in the end. This truth was preached by Krishna through stealing.

27.	Some say that they are not attached by the worldly issues even though they are surrounded by such issues like the lotus flower in water as said in the Gita. This is possible only for God entering this world and any soul will be affected by the surrounding external atmosphere. Hence, sage Vashishta told while preaching Rama that staying far from the worldly issues as far as possible is always the safest way for any ordinary soul. For a soul, except the responsible duties, it is better to avoid the worldly issue and be in spiritual association. Minimisation of worldly association is always a better path for ordinary soul aspiring spiritual progress. Worldly issues other than basic responsibilities will be also proved as unnecessary, if verified by analysis.

28.	You must realize internal meaning of the path of Yoga without being carried away by the external representations. The first five wheels (Chakras) represent the attractions to the five elements of world. The sixth wheel represents the initial state of awareness or mind placed between eye-brows, which is to be controlled by strong concentration of vision or observation. This is the meaning of concentration of both eyes in the centre of eye-brows .The seventh wheel on the top of the head represents intelligence or faculty of analysis with the help of which alone You can attain God. God is present in the centre of this wheel. Kundalini or serpent indicates the awareness or nervous energy travelling as waves. Scholars only can understand the concepts represented by this pictorial system. Fools are carried away by the external pictures.

29.	The kundalini sleeps in the first wheel representing solidified ignorance or Tamas in the first wheel containing solid earth. The awakening of this awareness is spiritual realization that makes it to travel crossing all the six hurdles to reach the top most God. The curved journey of the awareness indicates that You can proceed towards God by handling the obstructions tactfully without hurting them. This tactful procedure is not a sin in Nivrutti and same becomes sin in Pravrutti. If You cheat the worldly bonds to go to God, it is not sin. If You cheat the worldly bonds to go to a prostitute, it is sin. If the awareness goes in straight way, the rotating wheels will cut it in to pieces and further journey is stopped.

30.	The wheel representing mind contains a lotus flower with two petals representing name and form (Naama ruupa), which is this world attracting Your mind. This wheel is called as Ajnaa, which means the order of Your preacher expressed as spiritual preaching. You must concentrate Your vision on such order so that You can cross the attraction of this world. The Seventh wheel contains a lotus flower with thousand (many) petals indicating that You should analyze every concept in many directions to find out the ultimate truth that exists in its centre.

31.	It is said that Idaa nerve or Moon (departed souls live on moon) is on the left side representing the path of departed ancestors associated with worldly fascinations. The right nerve is Pingalaa or Sun (from Sun heaven starts) representing the path of angels doing good deeds. The central nerve is Sushamnaa representing the divine path to reach God indicating that You should avoid both sides and be involved in the straight path of service to God only.

32.	The left side cool moon represents sweet devotion. The right side sun represents intensive hot knowledge. With the help of these two, the central nerve represents practice involving service with sacrifice to God. Such soul goes through the central nerve to the abode of God called as Brahmaloka. This is the essence of Yoga preached by Me. Ignorant disciples can’t catch the central essence and are carried away by the superficial attractions of figures and get confused. One foolish devotee tore the body of his wife to see these wheels with lotus flowers! Wheels mean whirl-pools are attractions of worldly bonds in this world ocean and if the swimmer (spiritual aspirant) is caught by these on the way, he will be constantly rotating in those only. Lotus flowers are also the same attractions, which attract the black bee-soul (black indicating Tamas or ignorance) and bind it by the closer of petals.

33.	The Gita mentions both theoretical detachment from the fruit (Tyaktvaa karmaphalaasangam...) and also the practical sacrifice of the fruit (phalam tyaktvaa maneeshinah). Some clever people, who are selfish in enjoying the final fruit without a trace of sacrifice, interpret that the practical sacrifice of the fruit also means the theoretical detachment from the fruit! This is the climax of their greediness and hats off to their intelligence for giving such misinterpretation to cover their greediness! Social service without God leads the soul to temporary heaven. Same social service based mainly on God leads the soul to the abode of God. Heaven is near to the abode of God. The path to heaven is success in Pravrutti, which is the only expectation of God from every soul in order to maintain the balance of this creation. Nivrutti is started only by some climax devotees because Nivrutti gives eternal fruit in which God takes all the responsibilities. In Pravrutti, the devotee is fully responsible for his journey to heaven or hell.

34.	Knowledge, devotion, service with sacrifice and preservation of time and energy (Yoga) are equally important in the spiritual journey. These four are the four dogs present near My feet. The main point is that You should leave all unnecessary worldly works other than basic responsibilities and You must concentrate Your rest time and energy in the work of God. Peace comes when all the unnecessary worldly works are leftover.

35.	Sometimes, My illusory power drags You from the continuous spiritual effort to give You some gap for a fresh reapproach. Gap is essential in any contentious work. Due to this gap, the soul feels very much pained and rededicates himself/ herself with double vigour. Narada says that the devotee is agitated much due to gap (tat vismarane paramavyaakulataa), which is a test of true devotion. It is just like the culvert stopping the flow of water to double its speed afterwards. Hence, My maayaa always helps the soul in spiritual journey and never becomes hurdle if You understand properly.

36.	If I lose the hope about a soul that it will not be reformed, I will cancel the rest longevity and throw it into cycle of births of animals. If I feel that the soul needs some more time to complete the spiritual effort, I extend the longevity. Longevity is not fixed and it is in the hands of God only. Even astrological scripture says this point while describing the 8th house or longevity of a horoscope.

37.	The scale of time must be also understood in the proper essence. A devotee developing interest (shraddha which is important in the case of departed souls) on God treats one day wasted as one year (pitrumaanam). A more ripened higher devotee feels one day wasted as one year (Devamaanam). Time is limited even if You are in the spiritual path and there is no time if You are in the path of materialism only.

38.	Human beings are recognised by Tamas or ignorance. Departed souls are recognised by ritual work or Rajas. Angels are recognised by knowledge or sattvam. A spiritual aspirant is beyond these three, travelling towards God and helped always by these three directed towards God.

39.	A medicine may be bitter, but removes illness and gives good health to the patient. Spiritual association is like this. A sweet is pleasant, but, kills the patient. Worldly association is like this. You must use analysis with Your intelligence to find out which is helpful and which is harmful to You.

40.	Money and energy can be earned again, if lost. Time lost can never be earned. Hence, saving Your time is the first step in Yoga. If You are caught by the association of a bad friend or relative, You should act as if You are hearing him and internally think about God. If such talent is absent in You, You must frankly refuse the participation and go away to join good spiritual association. Friendship or relationship is not greater than Your spiritual effort done to get the grace of God.

41.	The expenditure of time and energy can be on one form of God or several forms of God. The method of expenditure can be one or many like reading spiritual books, hearing devotional songs, doing service to God etc. Whether You deposit Rs.100 in one bank or in four equal parts in four banks, there is no difference in the final result.

42.	The true devotion to God without aspiration for any fruit in return is the correct genuine currency, which is valid. The false devotion to God with aspiration for some fruit in return is invalid like fake currency. With genuine currency, You can go to any shop, it is fruitful. With fake currency, You can go to any shop, it is harmful. Any path to any shop is immaterial and everything depends only on one point that whether Your currency is genuine or fake.

43.	Mind is very unstable aspiring for a change in every step. Unity and concentration are against to the nature of mind. If You put spiritual effort, which is not congenial to the nature of mind, the mind-horse rebels against You, which results in Your fall! The more You control it, the more quick is Your fall! Change of form of God or change of method of worship is not going to cause any loss to You. Then, why shall You be rigid in wasting Your time and energy to control the mind.

44.	Every soul argues that its deed is not a sin. The crow also kisses its child. The judgement shall be never given by any party. Only the impartial judge gives the final judgement, which alone is true. Hence, the impartial God shall decide whether You have done the sin or not. You may catch a red fire piece of charcoal thinking it as red gem. Based on Your thinking, will it not burn Your hand? God alone knows anything what it is actually. You must know what it is in the view of God and act accordingly.

45.	An egoistic soul with Rajas thinks that whatever is done by it is justified. An ignorant soul also with Tamas thinks that whatever is done by it is justified. A soul having no ego and no ignorance is with Sattvam and understands exactly My actual view to become the impartial judge like Me to decide its course of action.

46.	In doing the ritual for departed souls, there are two places:- one is the place of God (Vishvedevasthaanam) and the other is the place of the departed soul (Pitrusthaanam). The ritual is nothing but prayer to God to protect the departed soul presented before God. Here, Your respect to God is more important than Your respect to the departed soul. You have taken Your diseased father to the doctor. You must concentrate on respecting the doctor so that the pleased doctor will treat Your father with more care. On such occasion, if You neglect the doctor and go on respecting Your father for his property-will, You may be benefited, but not Your father. Hence, the doer shall more concentrate on the place of God than the place of departed soul. In any ritual, concentration of God is the main aspect.

47.	Every soul is basically selfish to worship God for its benefit only. Even the soul aspiring for salvation wants to enjoy My bliss. Hence, Shankara told that He is not aspiring for salvation also (Na mokshasyaakaamkshaa...). Unless this basic selfishness is removed, no soul can get My real grace. Selfishness is the root disease like diabetes is the root of several complications. The self can be forgotten when the soul gets attracted to Me. This attraction to God comes only from the knowledge of God. Such attraction resulting in sacrifice and service (practical proof of theoretical devotion) gets My full grace. This concept can be very easily understood by anybody by keeping his/her issues in My place.

48.	If one is reciting Gayatri hymn catching the cross belt, he need not be called as Braahmana. If one is wearing saffron cloth and a long stick in hand, he need not be called as saint or samnyaasi. The internal meanings shall be satisfied. Braahmana means that person, who has the true knowledge of God and directs the society towards God. Samnyaasi means that person, who is ripened in the spiritual knowledge of God and dedicates himself in the service of God leaving all the worldly activities. Gayatri means singing sweet songs on God and the cross belt with three threads means that one should catch God in human form and the three threads represent the three components of the medium of God, which are awareness (Sattvam), inert energy (Rajas) and inert matter (Tamas). Saffron colour represents the ripened state of a fruit, which is the ultimate divine state. The stick (Danda or control) indicates the control of senses towards attractions of worldly bonds.

49.	Brahmana concentrates on Me, the mediated God, for easy worship indicating the path to the contemporary human incarnation, called as Satguru. Samnyaasi reveals the mechanism of incarnation and explains the importance of the root-source unimaginable God in the absolute plane. If a preacher explains that unimaginable God and incarnation are one and the same due to perfect monism resulting from total merge, such a preacher is called as Braahmana Samnyaasi irrespective of reference of caste or gender or religion in this context.

50.	The four castes are made by God based on their qualities and deeds. The caste is not by birth. Braahmana is that person, who preaches spiritual knowledge to the entire society leading them to God. Kshatriya is that person, who travels in the spiritual path with immense courage defeating all the opposing hurdles. Vyshya is that person concentrating on God while attending the worldly responsibilities also. Shudra is that person, who concentrates on materialistic world only without any taste for spiritual knowledge. By such worldly attachments, he is always weeping with tensions. This word comes from the root verb ‘Shuk,’ which means worried. You can’t say that the genes carry on the qualities from father to son and so on. It is wrong because genes carry on some mannerisms only and not the qualities. The qualities depend upon the sub-conscious state of the individual soul, which may enter any womb as directed by God’s constitution. The untouchables are from all the four castes, who are banned for their sinful activities. The issue of untouchable need not be untouchable. Several great scholars and great devotees exist born in untouchables. Untouchable is like debarred student from the college and if he is reformed, he is again admitted in to the college. Shankara fell on the feet of an untouchable, unable to answer his question!

51.	Apart from the above mentioned communities, there is one community called as atheists, who are very very rigid to oppose the unimaginable God even though they observe unimaginable miracles with their big big eyes! They are fully occupied by emotion regarding the exploitations of some bad people in the name of God and religion. We agree that the exploitations always exist and are true. Because of some bad students, who copied and passed the examination, You can’t cancel the very system of examination. You have to invent some ways to prevent such crimes. In every system, mistakes take place and You can’t cancel all the systems. Hence, the final order of God Datta is that a caste shall be decided based on qualities and deeds only and not by birth.

52.	Brahmachaaree doesn’t mean the person, who is unmarried. It means a person, who is always absorbed in God. Sage Vashishtaa, who got 100 issues through his wife Arundhati claimed himself as Sadaa Brahmachaaree (always bachelor), which was accepted by Ganga river! Upavaasi doesn’t mean the person, who is not eating. It means that person, who is staying very close to God. Sage Durvaasa eating meals every day served by Arundhati claimed himself as Nitya-upavasi (not eating on any day) and it was accepted by Ganga river! When Narada asked God Brahma about the real Brahmachaaree in the entire creation, Brahma showed His finger towards Krishna, who married 16,000 girls! This is correct because the unimaginable God (Brahman) is totally merged in Him. When Narada asked about a chaste lady, his finger pointed Gopika. A chaste lady is that soul (every soul is treated as female prakruti and God alone is treated as the only one male or purusha), which is always interested in God Krishna!

53.	Vaanaprastha aashrama doesn’t mean to go to forest along with wife. It only means to go to a lonely place with trees along with a co-devotee for spiritual discussion. Samnyaasa doesn’t mean leaving the house and family, wearing a saffron cloth. It only means the ripened state of a fruit having saffron colour and sweet taste like devotion to God. Vaanaprastha means simple going to garden or forest and this word doesn’t indicate the association of wife. Samnyaasa means total absorption (in God) and this word doesn’t indicate saffron cloth.

54.	In Upanayanam, the cross belt with three threads is worn indicating that only the mediated God shall be caught for worship. In marriage, another cross belt is taken with three threads from the hands of father-in-law and second cross belt belongs to the bride. After marriage, the husband worships God while the wife performs all the house hold duties like cooking etc., by which the husband is facilitated in his spiritual effort. Hence, half of the fruit of the spiritual effort done by the husband comes to wife and half of food cooked by wife is taken by husband. This means that the husband shall share the spiritual conclusions with his wife at the end of analysis. Similarly, the wife shall share the food with her husband at end of cooking. Like this, mutual co-operation proceeds even in the final stage of salvation. If the wife becomes a co-devotee, she can follow her husband in Vaanaprastha, otherwise, not. Ubhayabharati followed her husband Mandanamishra even in Samnyaasa.

55.	The cross belt containing three threads indicate Me only, the one God seen as three divine forms. The second cross belt having three threads indicates Me only to be worshipped by wife. In some places, a third cross belt with three threads is also taken, which indicates the upper garment. When the inner sense is understood well, there is no need of its representation-symbol in the final respected stage called Samnyaasa. The samnyaasi is respected by all and is not scolded for leaving the cross belt.

56.	In the ritual called Upanayanam, the deity to be worshipped is not a female form called as Gayatri since the deity mentioned is God Savita. (Savitaa devataa Gayatree chandah). Gayatri represents only the mode of worship, which is singing. Song (Samaveda) is more attractive then poem (Rugveda) and poem is more attractive than prose (Yajurveda). Samaveda is told to be greatest among all the Vedas and this means that song is the highest attraction of mind. Savita means God, who creates this world of souls (shuunj-praaniprasave). Savita also means sun indicating the removal of ignorance-darkness by the spiritual preacher, who is promoter of intelligence.

57.	The cross belt having three threads indicate the contemporary human incarnation called as Sadguru, who shall be approached for the true guidance in the spiritual path. All the essence of this ritual indicates the general spiritual procedure to be followed by any soul in this world irrespective of caste, gender and religion. The sage of this ritual is Vishvaamitra indicating friend, philosopher and guide for the entire world. Universality of this ritual is very clear if its essence is properly understood.

58.	Gayatri doesn’t mean a Vedic hymn existing in meter called as Gayatri. Any song in any language towards God is Gayatri (Gaayantam traayate). Mantra means the song which attracts the mind without any force and makes the soul to repeat it again and again (manaanaat traayate). This is the meaning of Gayatri Mantra to be praised as the highest mode of worship (Na Gayatryaah paro mantrah).

59.	Devotees take the garland of beads and go on repeating the name of God with counting the beads. In this process, there is no natural attraction because the repetition of same name not only bores the devotee but also bores Me to hear the same word again and again. The force behind such unnatural process is only aspiration for some fruit by doing that. The actual interpretation of the garland of beads is like this — each bead represents a letter and the garland of beads represents a line of song that attracts the mind. The movement of garland in circular way by hand represents natural repetition of such attractive song again and again. This interpretation makes God to be pleased since attraction of mind spontaneously exists without any external force of aspiration for fruit. Experience is said to be the final stage of authority. What will be Your experience if somebody goes on repeating Your name in Your ear? What will be Your experience if somebody sings a sweet song praising Your personality again and again?

60.	People criticize that Manu in his ethical scripture told that a female shall not have freedom (Na streeh svaatantryamarhati). This is misunderstood that a lady shall be always kept under house arrest! The human souls immediately take the misinterpretation only in the first step. Female means any soul and not a female by gender. Male or Purusha means God. No soul should have freedom to get spoiled. If the soul is under the control of God, the soul will be uplifted in the spiritual path.

61.	Any soul can come out of the attraction of this world due to stronger attraction to God. This can’t be reverse. After tasting divine nectar, all the other drinks are naturally rejected. By rejecting all the drinks in the beginning itself, You can’t attain the divine nectar. Only after tasting the divine nectar, You are rejecting other drinks spontaneously without any external force. Such spontaneous detachment from world comes only after getting attracted to God.

62.	Attachment to something through attraction is the nature of mind. The mind can’t exist in detachment to everything for a long time. In order to follow the nature of mind, You must attach it to God in the first stage. Then, without any effort, the mind gets detached spontaneously from the world. This is seen in the world also. A young man attracted by a very beautiful girl becomes spontaneously detached from all the worldly attractions. Hence, detachment from world (Vyraagya) is a spontaneous consequence of attachment to God (Bhakti). Through the former, latter can’t be attained in spite of hectic efforts. Through the latter, the former is spontaneously attained.

63.	Justice is the top most priority in My view. Never hurt the justice by following injustice in sinful way. If justice is just hurt, I reach the climax of anger. If You injure justice, imagine the state of My anger towards You! You have to come to Nivrutti after passing in Pravrutti and not by neglecting Pravrutti. If You fail in Pravrutti and damage justice, You are banned from Nivrutti. A person, who can’t jump and touch the roof of his house, how can You expect him to jump and touch the sky?

64.	Don’t imitate Me seeing My stealing butter and dancing with Gopikas in Brundaavanam without understanding the background. They are sages doing severe penance for Me in millions of previous births. I tested them in the three strong worldly bonds before giving salvation to them in their final birth. After leaving Brundaavanam in My 18th year, neither I returned nor I repeated such test anywhere else throughout My life. Human souls are always fond of exploitation of the truth in their interest.

&amp;#x200B;

65.	The minimum and maximum expectation from You is only that You should follow the path of justice and never do any sin under any circumstances. Damaging any good soul is the climax of injustice. The deity of justice called as ‘Yamadharma Raja’ was with golden colour in the early ages since he was enquiring mostly good people only. After beginning of this Kali age, he is enquiring only bad people. Due to the effect of the sins of these bad people, he became jet black!

&amp;#x200B;

&amp;#x200B;

&amp;#x200B;

www.universal-spirituality.org

&amp;#x200B;

Universal Spirituality for World Peace