SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: Financial aid for urgent medical emergency
AUTHOR: Most-Row-8759
DATE: 2023-08-17
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/15tckh7/financial_aid_for_urgent_medical_emergency/
--- POST TEXT ---

I have already sent the required docs to moderators for approval.

But since urgent I m directly making a post

Some days ago I found out a guy was helped out by the generous members of reddit when his father died

Now I don't want to make this a trend but I think I need genuine help. You all might get pretty annoyed thinking that now everyone would come forth with stories made up or true demanding money but for people like me who r actually needy, I think its a great source of help and in the end it all depends on you all, if you want to help or not. 

So, My fathers hospital bill of 1 month stay has surpassed 2,60,000..My mums not working and we have no savings as we belong from the lower middle class and I m the only child. We have somehow arranged for around 1,70,000 but the remaining 90000 is concerning me. Out of the 90k my friends have assured me to give around 30k and I m now left with 60k. We have squandered all resources at this point and I m merely 17 and I can't think of doing much and it ruins my mental state.

 The issue is we got the bill thing sorted out with the hospital agreeing on terms that we will pay in EMi as our financial conditions were too pathetic but for the past 2 days my father is quite critical and he is on ventillator and is urgent need of an arachnoid cyst surgery which would cost around 1 lakh. The hospital demands clearance of outstanding dues at this moment in order to proceed with his surgery and we cant even change hospitals because transporting my dad in this condition is not feasible at all. The cyst is around 3.35cm. The1 lakh for surgery is not an issue as by that time we will go the bank or perhaps mortgage something because we will have sufficient time then and we will somehow figure that out but for now I really need the 60,000rs urgently so that my father could get the surgery done as soon as possible. All I am lacking is time. As it is an emergency.

I m posting it here because I was preparing for my neet entrance from delhi and had to rush back kolakta for this emergency and my mum is entirely dependent on me and this makes me feel suicidal because I m helpless at this point

And yeah I will try and reach the max subs as possible so that I can quickly raise 60,000.

Please if you could also help me out by reaching out to moderators of other subs I will be highly grateful

And people who donate please post their screenshots after donations so that you can keep a track of how much I have received. Even the smallest of donations count. The moment my total hits 60k I will myself put this post down and If I dint I urge the moderators to do so.

The upi is:- kumar31@fam

This is not my official account and I intend to keep my identity hidden on reddit as I don't want others to know who I m and what a pitiful situation I m in. It makes me feel ashamed. Also I don't want to get trolled and busted being called out a fraudulent or scammer by people in the comments or in dms if they don't believe me. That's why I have used this fake I'd as i don't want my original one to get tainted. 

See I don't aim to make any profits here all I need is urgent money around 60k to get my father treated that's it.

In case of any doubts I am willing to show my hospital bill and adhar card details to the moderators of the sub.
If you could approve and make my post look like a trustworthy need requirement I will be really highly obliged. 
This way everyone would know that it's not a fraudulent act and I would be spared from sending and leaking my private information to a plethora of people who would come asking for it in my dms.

And if you can please help me reach out to at max subs and people possible, please do it and spread it out.

Once again the upi is:- kumar31@fam

Thank you to everyone who will trust me and help me out and I wouldn't be able to express the sheer amount of gratitude and love I would feel for all of you lovely beings even if you have had donated the least sum. I wouldn't be able to reply to dms or comments regularly for the condition I m in I have a lot to lookout for but whenever I could I will.

Thanks once again

Anyone who is really willing to genuinely help please get in touch with me in my dm and I m ready to maintain utmost transparency.