SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: Rant: all astro apps are fake
AUTHOR: Practical_Dinner2857
DATE: 2025-03-05
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1j3wyzi/rant_all_astro_apps_are_fake/
--- POST TEXT ---

So basically, I already had a knowledge on how these apps work, but a relevantly new app approached me to be astrologer on board with them! They lured that they have worked on all the negatives of the other apps and I will not have an issue with them!

Starting few days were okay! But honestly I used to just sit online for hours and get no chat/ call
Then after 2 weeks they suggested to attend a Google meeting where they will teach how to repeat customers
I swear you not, they openly told us to increase the time of reply, let the customers wait, give them automated answers and compel them to extend the chat!!! I mean, I wasn’t at all in favour of this, so I started just taking few seconds!
They repeatedly told to do live sessions, but Everytime I went live, some cheap boys started commenting and connecting on calls and chats just to say “u r beautiful” “ I love you” etc
I paid no attention to it, although I mentioned this to team 

Now this app offers first 1 minute free, so I used to get many such clients who used to connect for a minute, end chat and connect back again
I was pissed but again trying to handle this kind of work
But then they started offering first 5 minutes free to repeat customers
I had gained set of 5-6 customers who used to connect daily with me
Now they also started doing the same thing
Connect for 5 minutes, disconnect and connect back again
I swear u not this was the last straw 
As it is I used to chat for 10 minutes and earn ₹79 (and yes gst extra taxes were to be deducted from this)
I mean beggars earn more than this in 60 seconds red light

These apps treat the astrologers on board as piece of shit! And when I called them out for this , they blocked me, and deactivated my account straight away without replying! 
I’m sure they aren’t even gonna pay me what I have earned the last month! And my whole time, energy everything got wasted! 

There’s one more thing very important that happened with me! A guy openly asked to mastu**** on private video call in the name of meditation! When I told this to the team, they called this harassment as “noise” . Ignore the noise and focus on your growth! 
I mean straight up bullshit men of our society! 
Just because that client pays them, he is superior! And I get paid by these apps so I’m treated like shit!

TLDR; astrology apps ask astrologers to say wrong stuff and take more time to make their money! They treated astrologers as shit and don’t pay