SOURCE: Reddit - r/Chennai
CITY: Chennai
TITLE: Tamil Matrimony Frauds
AUTHOR: Altruistic-Trash2522
DATE: 2022-08-16
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/wplmoc/tamil_matrimony_frauds/
--- POST TEXT ---

Recently, a doctor was scammed 12 lakh rupees by the scamster who posed himself as a doctor. This fake doctor was a B.Com graduate and has cheated around 20 girls in a similar fashion. Elite matrimony charged 1 lakh rupees from the doctor but still she was cheated. These gullible victims easily believe the scamster since they are talking through matrimony and the person whoever registered is looking for their potential partners. Why elite matrimony didn't validate their clients even after charging a whopping 1 lakh rupees. Matrimony websites are becoming scamster dungeons where girls are tricked, cheated and threatened.

Edit: Looks like scamster know mimicry. He posed himself as parents and called the girls family. The scamster convinced the girl's family that his son is a doctor and they are interested in the girl. Since the family got a liking for the boy, doctor bride started talking to the scamster. It was decided the scamster family would come to meet the girl family after 3 months. In the 3 months, he got her trust. Then he called her saying his parents got COVID-19 and both are hospitalized and he is in dire need of cash. Since the gullible victim believed him, she gave around 12 lakh for the hospital expenses. Later she realised she was conned since the scamster kept on asking money and not willing to visit their house for family meeting.

Edit2: Just read some reviews on google. They are even charging 5 lakhs for the customer on promising potential successful grooms for the brides. One lakh seems to be the least amount which they charge. These assholes don't even validate the profiles by visiting the person's house. Daytime robbery in the name of matrimony.

Edit3: Some ppl doesn't understand the accountability of these matrimony sites and trying to pass this cheating like another case. Yes, stupid ppl gets cheated everyday. I am not supporting that lady doctor since she was stupid enough to believe the lies and lost 12 lakhs. My problem is these matrimony sites charging some thousands to lakhs of rupees but still providing the very bad services by providing fake profiles to the customers. Shouldn't there be accountability on their part to share only genuine profiles to the customers who are getting paid services?! Their advertisement boosts their genuine profiles whereas in reality,it is the complete opposite.