SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: Credit card scam (specifically ICICI Amazon Pay/Citibank)
AUTHOR: Stunning-Magician177
DATE: 2023-10-16
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/179cekx/credit_card_scam_specifically_icici_amazon/
--- POST TEXT ---

My dad has multiple credit cards as different cards have different offers. He wanted a Rupay card as it often has multiple offers, so he searched for it and stumbled upon Federal Bank Rupay credit as he thought it had good deal. Went to their website and applied. 

Shortly he got a call from one of their agents and he said apply for card for card approval and asked for the latest card statement. So my father shared IDFC CC statement to which he replied share either of Amazon pay ICICI CC or Citibank CC. (I guess maybe of the reason, as dad told me, there's no easy option to put limit on these cards, as he generally keeps a limit of just 20k and at times upto 50k, but in this Amazon pay ICICI card the limit is already set at 6.5L)

So my dad shared of ICICI. And this conversation is happening on WhatsApp and the guy had set up the DP as his selfie along with the Federal Bank ID card. 

Then the guy shared Google hangouts meeting link for video KYC to which my dad joined. 

Dad was getting it done and the guy was engaging with dad in a conversation and he asked my dad to remove his spectacles for the picture. 

Immediately papa got a notification of an SMS with the sender name ICICI, he realised he has been scammed! 

Immediately he cut the call, call the customer care centre of ICICI and immediately blocked the card. Unfortunately the transaction of 20k+ was done till then to a freecharge wallet. 

Immediately there were 4 OTPs of transactions ranging from 20k, 10k, 1L and 5L!
The transactions were to Mobikwik, freecharge and safegold. 

Luckily our card was blocked on time and we saved our lakhs of transactions but we did lose 20k. 

Then I Googled about Safegold, it's a website which sells 24k gold in 24 seconds!
What the fuck is this idea?
I believe this is gold for scammers/fraudsters.

Well we have blocked all the credit/debit cards for extra precautions. Reported this to cyber crime and bank too. Bank said this dispute will be difficult to settle as it's done through OTPs and bank is not liable in this as the OTP is only sent to the customer's registered mobile number. 

Anything else can be done to ensure that we do not lose on this 20k? 
It'll be really helpful.