SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kolkata
CITY: Kolkata
TITLE: How many of you Hindus here would like to convert to an Abrahamic religion like Christianity or Islam?
AUTHOR: Comfortable-Disk1988
DATE: 2024-10-11
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/kolkata/comments/1g1a5gn/how_many_of_you_hindus_here_would_like_to_convert/
--- POST TEXT ---

Curiosity te jiggesh korchi just. Actually I am a religion nerd. I lost interest in Hinduism a long time ago after I found about Aswamesha sacrifice and obscene stuff that happen in it. I found it from an Islamic polemical website and thought it was fake. When I asked Hindu scholars on this, the answers they gave me convinced me that this sacrifice was an actual thing and these kind of bad stuff were actually sanctioned by Vedas and Upanishads. After that I read Ambedkar's Annihilation of Caste and lost almost all respect for Hinduism.

However, unlike Leftists I don't go around abusing Hinduism or Hindus. I kept my distance from falling into Leftist trap. But meanwhile I got interested in Abrahamic religions. I also know Let's affinity for Islam and Christianity, especially Islam. In India, Left glorifies Islam a lot and considers it a religion of 'peace' and Muhammad a good man and a 'prophet of compassion' (iirc Umar Khalid and Javed Akhtar posted on this hashtag). In WB, Left is still active, especially on this sub and colleges like Presidency, Jadavpur, etc. Muslims are considered oppressed masses and they get a lot of sympathy and love from Left. 

So on this occasion of Durga Puja, a Hindu festival, a festival of 'oppressors' and 'casteism' according to the Left, how many of you would like to convert to Islam or Christianity. Personally I was raised in a Christian school and have high regards for Jesus and I also like Muhammad (and his companions) for his masculinity and war skills. I kind of like Abrahamic religions and have anecdotally felt the presence of Islamic God (I haven't converted yet I am still researching). From an Abrahamic perspective, Hinduism, including Durga and all are demons who inspire polytheists to worship them and turn people away from true God and oppress followers of true God (which falls in line with what most on the Left believe). But on the other hand I have also seen that people on this sub are very protective of their Bengali culture which includes worship of Durga and celebrating this, but more as a fest where people wear fancy clothes, shop, eat biryani, drink and other fun stuff. So...what are your thoughts?