SOURCE: Reddit - r/Ahmedabad
CITY: Ahmedabad
TITLE: Monday blues (Storytime)
AUTHOR: ConsumedByDeath
DATE: 2023-08-07
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/ahmedabad/comments/15kf83u/monday_blues_storytime/
--- POST TEXT ---

Seems like my last post was a hit, so I thought I'd go ahead and share another story. 

The year I turned 18 was rather tough for me. Not only did I fail 11th Science the year prior, my online girlfriend from Scotland left me for a fat gamer boy next door. That shit stung, especially when she said that she needed something "real". Anyway, so having scored exceedingly low marks in my 12th boards and watching my dad's health fail him, I began my search for "something real". 

This began with me taking up a part-time job at a call center. Earlier, my mom made friends with this lady she met at Deepkala Junction. They bonded over their mutual love for parsimoniousness and wasting time checking out shit they won't and cannot afford to buy. It just so happened that she worked at a recruitment agency which recruited for BPOs, and after watching me sulk in my room listening to Slipknot for an entire month, my mom had me meet her and she hooked me with this gig. 

The main boss seemed decent, looked like a kind man you'd run into at a sperm bank, and they had a nice office going on. Everything seemed right, even more so owing to the fact that they promised to pay me a handsome 4k per month. I joined the week-long training they conducted prior to letting us join the rest on the floor, and that was pretty fun considering there were three cute girls from Kazakhstan in our group and tHey were pretty fun to talk to. However, they left at the end of the training period and I was a little peeved by that cause I hadn't taken a number. It did little to dampen my excitement, however, and I joined the rest of the motlee crue. 

The work was purported to be rather simple- we ring up people in the UK, we bluff that we know about their debt, claim to be from some fancy ass debt management service, that we'd help them clear their debts, and basically sell them a debt management plan. In my specific case, I was supposed to just take their details and forward them to a "closer" i.e the person who'd convince them to buy this crap. At this stage, you might've caught on to the fact that this is likely a scam setup. Much to my chagrin, I must admit that I didn't bear the gumption to determine the same at the time. 

I'd take 100s of calls, most folks would hang up on me probably cause of the accent and the fact that I was chatting rubbish. My boss began to tighten the screws on me as the days went by and no sales were in sight, and the floor manager began to harass me over my hair, the way I dress up, the way I talk and walk etc. They expected us to turn up in formals everyday, which flustered me even more. There was another dude, the typical loser-turned-gym rat, who'd constantly rag on me. All in all, I felt like an absolute dolt and my confidence was in tatters. 

Ultimately, I decided to change this by doning the voice of a woman, and settled on the name "Sheila" cause it gives that scandalous "I love married men" vibe. And so it began- I'd ring up dudes with a British lady voice, they'd listen, talk me through all their finances, ask me out on dates. Sure, there'd be times when people would answer "4 and a half inches" to my question about their debts, but on the whole they were all nice to me. I had profound conversations about wives stripdancing in Poland, loving yourself and lactation. I made five sales within that week, my boss suddenly didn't give a shit about me turning up in jeans and T-shirt. However, the good times would soon end. 

I entered the office one particular Monday, a lot of stuff taking place inside my head. Only the floor manager and some of his lackeys were present. As usual, he began mouthing me off and started saying that "I am a gay boy" for doing the lady voice. I'd just had enough, and I decided to tell him that I can see his bra straps. He became incensed and grabbed my collar, which led me to headbutting him on the nose. Surely enough, the gym rat stepped up and punched me. Of course, this hurt a lot, but I swung a keyboard at him in retaliation and had his nose clenched up between my fingers, twisting it ever so hard while he screamed and dug his nails into forearms. In that moment, I couldn't care less about the consequences, all my rage from the days gone by surfaced and egged me on. I felt him wriggling his nose out of my grip and so I knee'd him in the jaw, really hard. The security guard, who was watching this from a distance, finally intervened. Turns out he lost two teeth, and when the boss reached the office and mulled over the matter, he chose his old foot soldiers and I lost my job. 

I was sent to the HR, a nice middle-aged lady. She quickly gave me a cheque and some stipend, and had me go on my way. I encashed it the next day, went to Ellisbridge waala Decent, treated myself to some butter chicken and then returned home to Savdhan India playing on the TV. Watched a whole ass episode where a woman marries and has sex with her husband, only for him to fall really ill which leads to the obvious conclusion- she finds another man to smash. They smash in the room next to her husband's, and he dies seeing this. Then, she marries the dude she cheated on him with and he falls ill. Cycle continues and then she finds out that she has AIDS. She doesn't give a shit either way and gets the action she wants. 

Anyway, so that was a tangent. I thought about everything that happened with me on that weird Monday and realised that shit hit the fan but I am alive, I am here, and I'll live. I finally dozed off dreaming about my private love island full of busty Govinda clones, away from all this shit. 

So that's it for this one. Until next time. Peaceeee.