SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: Delhi is much more livable place than Mumbai
AUTHOR: ahivarn
DATE: 2022-12-04
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/zboh5h/delhi_is_much_more_livable_place_than_mumbai/
--- POST TEXT ---

Clarification: I'm a mumbaikar who has lost hope in Mumbai and has also lived few years in Delhi. I've relatives in both cities.
1) By most objective measures, Delhi is far better City to live than Mumbai. The only thing Mumbai claims over Delhi is women's safety. However Mumbai has second highest per capita crime against women after Delhi.

Mumbai can be unsafe as well but they have created a host of myths around Mumbai which only a mumbaikar like me knows isn't true.

2) The cost of living in Mumbai is far costlier than any other cities in India, approaching the Western countries. Income is Indian. Whether it's the rentals, or the restaurants or delivery food or doctors or healthcare etc. In hand savings is much lesser for a mumbaikar compared to a delhite and the value and lifestyle he's getting is much lower. I've not heard of companies paying you much higher salaries if you live in Mumbai vs in Delhi or Hyderabad.
 
3) Real estate is a big scam. 1 BHK in Mumbai suburbs(not Mumbai City) can go for 40k+ easily. In that rate, you'll get 3 bhk fully furnished in Delhi or independent home. And you get much less developed infrastructure in Mumbai whether roads, drainage, protection against rains, trains or basic grocery markets. There's a reason why Mumbai is biggest market for home delivery apps. And don't even start on monsoon effects on Mumbai infra.

4) Researched and Been to all the famous Mumbai hospitals. Jaslok, lilavati, raheja, pd hinduja etc. Most of the famous doctors are passouts from KEMS or BYL Nair hospital in Mumbai. Compared to Delhi doctors, they are less talented and got less ranked in MBBS and further studies.
However that doesn't stop them from charging almost 3–6 times the fees of Delhi doctors. Not kidding. Average fees in Delhi is 500–1000₹. In Mumbai, any decent hospital will charge you 1500₹+ as fees going till 5000₹.

5) Restaurants are much costlier in Mumbai while providing much less quality ambience and food than Delhi.

6) If safety is so good, why is there so much gentrification in Mumbai? Why are localities divided amongst ethnicities? Why so much emphasis on security, security guards and gated societies in Mumbai? Why most of the population live in slums and chawls which even a poor Delhiite would feel ashamed of!

7) Traffic is nightmarish here and we suffer it daily. It gets much worse during rains for both slum/chawls and for middle or upper classes. Not to mention, slums and posh societies getting filled with rainwater and mosquitoes and insects for more than half a year. Rainy season is becoming longer in Mumbai for past few years.

8) There is no culture or history in Mumbai except South South Mumbai where it stopped. There's nothing like parks and playing grounds for vast majority of mumbaikars. 

One thing Mumbai fans develop through time is lying and unhealthy obsession to deny anything bad in Mumbai. 

Mumbai's tricks to fool its citizens through brainwashing:
-Local trains breaking your body when Delhi commuters enjoy metros. Then portray it as lifelong romance with locals and open windows breeze and friendship with commuters there.

- High rents or emi killing your savings? Portray it as something to be proud of that Mumbai newspapers often do. 

- 80% population lives in slums+chawls? Portray it as triumph of human spirit, ingenuity, etc.

- Bomb blasts rocking your city but boss and the elites need your services? Portray it as Mumbai spirit, never say never attitude, sab chalta hai, you shouldn't care. Lol.

In terms of value of your rupees, you are getting much less space, roads, infra, healthcare, education, history and culture and so on in Mumbai.