SOURCE: Reddit - r/Chennai
CITY: Chennai
TITLE: Help makkalae! Need some good criminal lawyer contacts.
AUTHOR: heronymousCoder
DATE: 2024-02-11
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/1ao3ipt/help_makkalae_need_some_good_criminal_lawyer/
--- POST TEXT ---

My father loaned 50 lakhs to a financiar in Anna nagar. We have the written contracts as well. Now, this was hard earned money by my father over last 20+ years. At that time my father didn't have any investment knowledge and so gave it to the financiar for loan and retired now.

Enter Fraud No.1:

Financiar guy was giving the interest money on time for a few years. But once Covid started he stopped paying interest saying some reason or the other. It's not like he doesn't have properties to sell and pay back the loaned money. He has a bunch of warehouses in Chennai. Now he is not even giving the principal money. He is not attending the phone calls too. For the last 3 1/2 years he says he will give money in 6 months but when my father calls after 6 months, he will say call after another 6 months. This went on so long and my father lost it and approached a public prosecutor (PP) in Avadi who was recommended by an acquaintance.

Enter fraud No.2 :

The PP initially said all the nice words to my Father..that he can get that money back from the financiar in no time and asked us to give a token money of 1lakh rupees to start the case. He got all the details from us (financiar's address, phone number etc) He asked us to file a FIR and then he proceeded to contact the accused. Looks like the accused had lawyered up with a high court lawyer. After a few weeks, the police station where we filed the case asked us to bring the proof documents to start the process..when my father told this to PP, he immediately said it's not required to go with the police as the accused is ready to settle verbally.
Days went by we didn't hear anything from our lawyer...when my father calls him, he always said he is busy in court blah blah..he sometimes never takes calls and never returns any calls. After 2 months when my father lost it again and went to the lawyers office in Avadi where he said he will take time but he will take care of it...just what will convince anyone to leave...my father got a hunch that the accused with his lawyer might have bribed our PP somehow and that is why he is delaying for so long...when my father asked for his token money of one lakh back saying he is not satisfied with the progress, the PP started as saying some BS that he has done so and so work related to the case and he cannot return the money...

Now my father is visibly disturbed and lost all confidence in people and our system. He is over 60 yeara now and I can't see him this way. This is why I want to get involved now. I want to try and get justice to my father. It's not about the money now. It's about bringing these people to limelight. 

I would appreciate it if you guys can help me with any good criminal lawyers in Chennai!!

🙏 Thanks much for reading this!