SOURCE: Reddit - r/Gurgaon
CITY: Gurgaon
TITLE: Let me tell you about smartworld scam. And red flags for 1st time buyers
AUTHOR: mjt256
DATE: 2025-02-04
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/gurgaon/comments/1ihgol5/let_me_tell_you_about_smartworld_scam_and_red/
--- POST TEXT ---

Let me tell you a real estate scam happened to me .
I’ll explain you how this genius scam takes place. 
They promise you the sun and moon to you at the time of booking. Like (you won’t have to pay EMI till the possession, You will also get the rental benefits too). This is normal marketing and okay.  
The scam part is the way they are denied. I will explain you how this happens:

After the 10% booking amount and loan approval. They will raise the first demand before signing Builder Buyer agreement ( 1st ⛳ ). And They will give time slots of BBA after the due date of payment(2nd ⛳). The bank denies the first payment (rightly so as they can’t disburse before signing of the agreement). They send you a threatening letter of cancelling your unit and slaps interest on your late payments (this happens before the agreement sign) and once you send the mail explaining everything they happily accepts the payments and assures you to resolve this matter at the time of possession ( 3rd ⛳) as this was the case with almost everyone. They won’t issue the comfort letter to you regarding the rental benefits (4th ⛳). 
People had to visit multiple time to their office and fight for hours to get this letter. after two years they gave this comfort letter to me last year to again denying it and not honoring it at the time of possession. 

If it had been one of case then it could have been understandable but its happening to almost every person makes me wonder it was all planned and very well executed ( I don’t want to add figures but you can understand it its in crores. So good job.)  Also did I told you about how they increased the area itself (which again gives them right to change all the charges mentioned in BBA and add additional ones) I came to know about it in the offer of possession. 

My two cents :
1)     The slowness of the govt. systems and consumer protection laws, the way judiciary works is not a bug , it’s a feature. It is meant to work like this. Every gov’t organization thrives and works on the principle that cause enough inconvenience and raise the cost (mostly mental) such that even if he wins he will loose. Its always a loose loose situation for you.
2)     If the problem is not solved right away. It only means it will never be solved. 

The Genius real estate company is Smartworld Developers. (I must give this to them, They are very smart and they will promise the world to you. But won’t honor any of it.). So now the agreement means nothing, their comfort letter and mails means nothing, all the conversations with their representatives has no value. They do not honor anything. Don’t believe a word they say.

Some other Redflags : 
1)     They keep changing the representatives. The people who made a deal with you is different and is nowhere to be seen. Your RMs keep changing. Someone assures of the solutions and they are nowhere to be seen. Its how they will keep denying everything agreed with the previous person. 
2)     Almost everyone you talk to now claims they have joined at last three months and doesnot know about your earlier solutions. 
3)     They conveniently paid PEMI till most of the payments comes to them and then stops suddenly ( again by saying will adjust at the time of possession). So they honor some part of the benefits and conveniently not other parts. 
4)     Creating the artificial sense of urgency : They won’t give you time to meet . they will keep you waited whole day at their office and they will keep dragging issue till the due date is close.
5)     Not allowing to visit your property without full payment and signing NOC.