SOURCE: Reddit - r/Hyderabad
CITY: Hyderabad
TITLE: Stuck between Fraudsters!!
AUTHOR: MewhoUwho
DATE: 2024-06-05
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1d8g0xs/stuck_between_fraudsters/
--- POST TEXT ---

Sorry for the long ass paragraph i just thought of letting the whole story out,but my real concern is at the last paragraph.just read that and help me I'm scared for life.

This all started 2 days ago. There was this message in one of my students community grp, which said available jobs at a TELECALLING company which is offering 20,000 + incentives monthly, and also has payments on a weekly to daily basis. It lured me just like many others. I messaged the guy after some inquiry said I'm interested (as I'm desperate for a small time job, which makes ppl like me easy target), he made me register to DEMAT account through M,stock by merea asset link. Nxt day i was added to a grp which had other ppl (30+) with multiple admins. Day 1 they sent a link to join the zoom meeting said not much abt the company which was expected. 5 mins into the meeting i knew these guys are fishy ppl. I've had my fair share of experience with MLM scamers before but never fell for them only this time things got out of hand. These guys are no MLM guys.These were the demat acnt referral guys. Back to the story, during the meeting they gave us a script raatta marne ke liye. That script said to introduce yourself as the HR of the said company. And i was like wtf!! We just joined a random company grp and in no less then a day we are HRs and suddenly we are also recruiting😒. 2nd day we got promoted to another group (they said 3 day training,each day graduates us to the next step or a new group). This group asked us to read out the script and send voice notes as this our mock test, I didn't do that i just resend one of the guys VC. On the 2nd day meeting there was this girl who's been training us since day 1, she was being rude at times and covering up with nonsense reasons if someone asked basic questions,even scolding some at times (you can tell she's from hyd). I lost my shit here, I opened up my mic The first thing i asked was is their company a legit one because I sure can't find anything abt them. I asked them to send any of the government registration ppr of their company,as expected she was covering it up. I asked a few more questions abt how they are just recruiting ppl out of nowhere (they just wouldn't tell this is a pyramid or networking job). The girl said NIHAL sir(which this whole reddit post is abt) this guy is their head, he pays them and manages the people. If something goes south he is the one these guys turn to and he handles them,which happened to me. Just as she said nihal sir i knew he would give more nonsense reason to cover up or be rude to me and kick out of the meeting. I just said your fraudsters and left before nihal showed up. I left that 2nd grp in the heat.I went straight to YT and searched for a scam relating to this matter. That video just explained how things work here, i put 1 to 1 and started making sense of this group with the help of this video. I understood My claims were right. This is a SCAM. I sent this video link to the day 1 grp which to our surprise has new joinings(new targets)(they asked us to leave the 1st grp as we are now in 2nd grp) i didn't do that, i stayed to see their dance over there. With the video i shared asked ppl to not believe these guys some of the ppl responded with your right this is a scam. And the dalle admins(recruiters) of that grp asked me to not share this here, Gaslighting me, asked me to leave the grp i said i wouldn't do that i will let every new member know abt this until you delete my messages and kick me out yourselves to prove that im right(thats what they did). A girl messaged me( the one that said I'm right) asked if what I'm saying is right. I said yes and she too stood against them after i was removed. I messaged each one personally in 2nd grp (as i had already left the grp already)sent them the video and asked them to not fall for them. Many of this ppl were either junior girls or house wives with kids, i just couldn't ignore not letting them know abt the scam.This is where i MESSED.as i was messaging random numbers of that grp, i mistakenly sent it to the scamsters own ppl. They got to know that I'm trying to help other ppl by messaging them personally. This all happened last night from 7 pm when the meeting started to 10 pm)

Now last night i was getting personal messages from those scam grp admins to not share the expose video. And here comes the main guy NIHAL. He WhatsApp calls me like 15+ times (i didn't pickup once) he starts to send me WhatsApp voice notes threatening me of hurting me in person. He was cursing my family mostly abusing my mother(which you would expect from a low life guy like this). He said he has my info (adhar ,pan card) i don't know if he truly has them, I'm guessing he's just using it to scare me. The reason I'm in a position of doubt is because when the recruiter asked me to register a DEMAT acnt in M,stock by merea asset link which he sent, i gave up all my credentials there,such as adhar pan and my bank ifsc code. After registration i sent the guy an ss of the M,stock link which said "Thank you (my name)"
 login id :- ********* (i put stars here but the original ss showed the login id number but it didn't show my password in the message). Now this rascal Nihal sends me this ss with my name and login id. And says i have your CARDS. This is where I'm scared. I didn't give them anything abt me just the ss which i mentioned and my number. They can't do shit with my number that i know but I don't know if their claims are true. This is where i need your help fellow redditors. Am i safe,can they access my info from the m,stock where i made my profile from the LINK THEY SENT ME. Also this bastard nihal messaged the girl that stood with me threatening her too. I thrashed his business a little bit yesterday and really pissed off nihal.