SOURCE: Reddit - r/Chandigarh
CITY: Chandigarh
TITLE: Growing Social Media influence and its adverse effects. (For Girls and Women out there)
AUTHOR: Pure_Definition_7372
DATE: 2024-12-30
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chandigarh/comments/1hpm37u/growing_social_media_influence_and_its_adverse/
--- POST TEXT ---

So before I write this post I would request the Admin here if there any issues with my Flair please let me know and do not remove my post without a warning because I want to address a sensitive issue which not much people are talking about. 

From the past few years, we might have seen a sudden spike in the growing number of MMS video's of some social media influencer getting viral. For many this may be a funny topic some Instagram channel also do provide links towards these video's. 
The biggest problem here that lies is some innocent people's MMS are also being leaked and they are ultimately left with nothing but a regret for the rest of their life's. 

In this growing world of cloud memory storages, we don't even know apart from the Company who else have the access to these Cloud memory storages. Our data is not just our data anymore. 

I want to specially address this to all the Female's out there, please be careful around yourself. Be aware of your surroundings. 
 
I was at a club a few months back where I saw a girl she was kind of drunk and seemed alone as well. A few boy's tried to go close to her tried touching her inappropriately, at first when only one boy approached her I though he was his boyfriend but when other's also started approaching it was kind of suspicious to me as these boys were having some intentions in their head. After like a min or so, I thought I should stop this but a few friends of that girl approached and took that girl away, probably back home. These inappropriate boys also went out probably were trying stalk her. "I think these boys were even trying to record doing all of this and the girl was clearing uncomfortable around them". 

A few years ago, I heard about a girl I will not name her here, I will just share a story about what happened. She was let's say 15 or 16 years by that time. She had a crush on someone who was one year senior to her. She had some friends in his class and she also had a few of them who were her Best friends, she even use to say a few of them are like my brothers. What happened next? The boy on whom she had a crush upon asked her for a few pictures of her "like nude, semi-nude stuff". The girl shared it. Guess what he shared that photo to everyone in his class including the one's who were her so called best friends, brothers. These boy's now clearly tried blackmailing her to use her photo, unless she does something for them, "not sure what they asked but something nasty + bad. The Girl was strong enough and told her mistake to her father, just because of her father this matter got quickly resolved. 

A girl from a University in Greater Noida, was approached by a African Male for a "One night stand". The Girl agreed to it, and next morning the Girl went into Coma. Why the Girl went into Coma was because of a multiple factors, that includes: Drug Abuse, overdose on drugs, Intense Sexual encounter. I am not sure but probably a video (MMS) was also circulated among the peers. The guy was arrested but what's the point the Girl died. 

Another incident from same university, A African male approached a girl for Sex, she agreed. She probably knew him for sometime, they were not very unknow to each other probably were classmates. The girl was also an addict of Weed, hash and all. They met, the guy had already set up a camera in his room, he recorded the whole sexual activity, some even alleged that the girl only agreed to smoke up a joint together with the guy but the guy spiked her drink with some drug or something which potentially led the Girl to be so high she was not really aware of what was happening with her. The video was shared and it surfaced in a lot of groups in her college. The Girl was ashamed of all this so much that she committed suicide. 

Another incident of a Boy and a Girl who were in a relationship for about 3 years. The guy use to record videos of their activities and allegedly leaked the MMS upon a small fight. 

The reason why I am writing all of these examples is because I want you to understand Girls, be careful. 
Always tell your parents with whom you are going out with. Also, tell your friends that yes you have informed your parents about your outing with the set of friends you are going out with. 
There is no safer place them the shadow of your own parents. 

Me being a Male (24years) I always tell my parents before hand where I am going, even if its a night club which will go around 5-6 in the morning, or a fest or anything. They just ask me for my live location. Also, because since my childhood I have always kept things clear and honest with my parents they never really stop me from anything all they ask is to tell them where am I going. You have to have a cool bond with your parents. 

Girls if you are planning to go out on a outing in which you are the only girl, make sure to tell your parents about it. At least one of your male friends has to be known by your parents. This will always keep you safe. Because even if these boys plan to do something wrong they will always know that your parents know your identity. Many Girls go like why are parents asking me all the time where am I going and all, with whom I am going, it is because they have seen the world more than you and they know the world is filled with people with a gross mind set.

Beware Girls be very Aware. The world is full of Shit, so take your steps carefully.