SOURCE: Reddit - r/Mumbai
CITY: Mumbai
TITLE: Suspicious Man asked for help outside office.
AUTHOR: Laxmi11112
DATE: 2025-04-25
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/mumbai/comments/1k7i8oc/suspicious_man_asked_for_help_outside_office/
--- POST TEXT ---

As suggested, Posting this here so it reaches the right audience who are working in Airoli. Folks, beware don't entertain anyone when you stray alone in that Airoli lane.

Few years back when I started my career journey, I was working in Mumbai specifically Airoli location. I used to stray outside to eat during the breaks. 

Once when I went alone to eat outside, I noticed a middle aged person with a humongous backpack standing in the road just opposite to the company's gate. 

Suddenly he approached me and told me to help him. I felt this must be some sort of scam and told him I can't help him to which he told he was a former employee of the office and lost his I'd card so he needs a new one and started pulling out a 500rs note and told me to get him inside. He was being paranoid and told he knows people from the office. He looked here and there, took a paper out and started scribbling the names of the people. I checked those names in my company's directory via mobile, they were real people. He didn't even spell it out. He Wrote it down as if it was some sort of secret. I told him I can't help him then he started seeing my Id card and took it in his hand. I Lost my temper, I snatched my id back and told him I can't help him and started moving forward. 

I moved till the end of the road to another food stall. Mind you, I walked around 10 mins to reach that place. I had my food and saw he was standing there. He FOLLOWED ME all the way to see where I was going and started requesting me again to help him get entry as he needs just an ID card. People started noticing this. I came back to the initial place and was going to cross the road to go inside the office, I got fed up and told him to cross the road and meet the security guard. He Stood there itself. He didn't move an inch. He didn't want to meet the security guard. I could see the fear on his face. I crossed and saw him standing at the same location. I went inside the office and told others. Everyone alerted me of the Infosys incident where a girl was killed and warned me not to stray outside the office. Some even suggested me to speak with the security guard if the guy turns up again.

 When I look back, that incident still haunts me. I didn't knew what was that man's intention and didn't knew what was inside that huge bag. I just know my gut feelings saved me. Always trust your gut feelings. Nowadays, we have to think alot about helping anyone.