SOURCE: Reddit - r/Pune
CITY: Pune
TITLE: How to deal with insecure, addicted and narcissistic father.
AUTHOR: Time-Aside9000
DATE: 2025-03-30
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/pune/comments/1jnd317/how_to_deal_with_insecure_addicted_and/
--- POST TEXT ---

Male here 28. My father is tobacco and alcohol addict. He drinks every night and it has taken toll on me, mother and sister. My sister got married recently and moved out but we cannot forget the horrible experiences we had inthe childhood.

Addiction is the not only thing he has. From the childhood, me and my sister are witnessing his narcissism. He used drink and fight with our mother. Sometimes in the middle of the night. Mother used to cry. It has affected me in very deep way. Even now if someone is shouting around me, my heartbeat gets high. He used to blame out mother for her small mistakes, accuse her and even doubt her. He has no filter on mouth. Whenever we go to a function as a family, he leaves us to drink and comes back and starts to talk nonsense, shout in front of relatives. Every relative knows that he is like that. They taunt us. 

Recently we told him to check his liver l, he agreed. After checking doctor said there are some irregularities. You need to scan. Now he's scared to bone and findeing every reason not to do a scan. Bullshit reasons like spiritual reasons. Started watching youtube videos of how all of this is normal. 

He never let me take my decisions. He took it on behalf of me everytime. Like my stream for engineering. I didn't want it but I did it because I had no option and courage to stand up for myself. I didn't wat the job in that field so I tried switching. It was taking time. He called me and emotionally blackmailed me to come home and join the family business. I had no option. Things are going downhill since then. He still tries to control me.

We don't talk like father son. It's always an argument. My mother is the person I'm worried about. Business is not in good shape. It will get better with time but I can't stay in this house.

I always get thoughts of suicide and self harm. I know you people might think, some people become responsible and make their life and move out of house in this kind of situations but it has affected me all in negative way. I have low confidence. I'm indecisive. I don't have empathy. I can't love myself. Now it's my age to marry a girl. I don't wanna bring her into this house. 
I beg you. How can I deal with this situation . Please don't suggest moving out as it's not an option for me. I've always cared for his health that why I get angry when he starts to drink. But it has always affected my mental health. 

How can I break these mental chains? How do I become emotionally strong? How do I accept the reality that his priority is alcohol and not us? How do I accept and move on?

Any help is appreciated please. If you are someone who was in same situation then olease dm me. I can't take this anymore. My future seems really dark.