SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kochi
CITY: Kochi
TITLE: Gym trainers being Fboys
AUTHOR: Asleep-Thought-7433
DATE: 2024-02-19
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kochi/comments/1aumwvc/gym_trainers_being_fboys/
--- POST TEXT ---

This story is just another example of how some gym coaches are absolute frauds and womanisers. This might seem like a gossip but it is important for others, especially girls to know and to be cautious so as to not fall in traps. This is insider info since I used to work at this particular gym.

This guy I'm gonna talk about, who will be referred to as 'X' here, is a certified Fboy. He is currently in a relationship with the woman who is the first Malayali to join WWE and she is a celebrity in Kochi. 

It is disheartening to see how he is the posterboy of the gym. He has messed with the lives of female clients who came to the gym to work out. This gym is a prominent MMA and boxing gym in Padivattom, Kochi. One of its owners is the daughter of a famous Mollywood actor-director. Many Mollywood actors have visited the gym. 
X is a senior coach who has been working there since it was established. He is also a MMA fighter and he has a social media profile like that of a celebrity. He is tall and has blonde hair. He is a known playboy. I've heard various stories about this person.

He started dating a female client, and they were in a relationship for a year. He apparently took a lot of money from her.
X cheated her multiple times with multiple girls. 

X later started having an affair with the WWE girl. X was already in a relationship with the client at the time of his new affair and had other lovers also. X allegedly tried to date another female client in the gym, who was reportedly a minor. He reportedly had a fling with another client too. X broke up with the girlfriend client, at some point. 

X is now dating the WWE girl. What's disappointing is that she is aware of X's cheating history and she also got cheated on by him at some point, yet she is still with him. Note that she is someone who promotes girl empowerment on her social media. The irony. Imagine the situation of the girls who came to the gym with the sole purpose of working out and their lives being fucked up by a coach.

Please do not trust or grow close to people at the gym easily. It is not like school or college where you've to try to befriend your peers. On the outside, gym trainers might seem very appealing and cool, but on the inside they could turn out to be cunts. Girls, please be careful. Take care everyone.