SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kolkata
CITY: Kolkata
TITLE: [rant] Got hired as a data analyst but basically data entry korache
AUTHOR: clueless20yo
DATE: 2025-02-07
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/kolkata/comments/1ik15vz/rant_got_hired_as_a_data_analyst_but_basically/
--- POST TEXT ---

It's been six months that I've been enrolled in an online DSML course, the duration of the course is 1.5 years. I've learnt Data Analysis. I was looking for an internship, got the mail id of the HR of this company through a linkedin post. Got interviewed in this company(it was my first interview in tech, I had no exact clue how it should be ) and got selected. Was happy for a couple of hours and I let my parents know that I got selected. 

On the first day(3rd Feb), I came to know they aren't doing data analysis the way it was supposed to be done according to their justification. They told me it's SAM, snow flexera etc. It took me 2days to figure out what they are actually doing. I realized it's a scam. Have to manually find legit software names from Snow's database(contains tons of junk data, no amount of filtering works on that) and put that in an excel sheet. 

Now I wish I wasn't get selected in the interview. I remember during the interview one of them said, "as this is a startup you might need to work on something else sometimes which might not always be exactly data analysis", I was like okay I'm eager to learn new things and now I realize what he actually meant by that. The things which they are making me do have no future.

I can't tell my parents as well about this, they were happy. The only thing that might be useful is the designation of full time employee as a data analyst. But everyday I'm having identity crisis. I wasn't even able to sleep properly, the thoughts keep haunting me whenever I try to rest in silence. The place is also 3 hours away from my house as I don't reside in Kolkata, also the seniors don't spare us any moment. I didn't get time to study this whole week. My gastritis got triggered with this much of anxiety and lack of sleep