SOURCE: Reddit - r/Hyderabad
CITY: Hyderabad
TITLE: So, I almost fell victim to a delivery scam...
AUTHOR: Full_Reputation_7805
DATE: 2023-12-03
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/189ohek/so_i_almost_fell_victim_to_a_delivery_scam/
--- POST TEXT ---

So, this happened today morning. There was a delivery guy at the door with a package addressed to me and it was COD (\~1.2k).

Mom takes the package and brings it into my room hands it over to me and tells me it's in your name, payment is also pending, go deal with the delivery guy.

I know that I haven't done any shopping in the past few weeks. Still, I read through the label printed On the package and it indeed had my name, and address on it. I give it the benefit of the doubt thinking that maybe one of my friends ordered and forgot to inform me(which happened in the past, never a cod order though).

Just in case I checked my Amazon order history as well on the way to the main door, and sure there were none.

I asked the delivery boy are you at the right place i don't have any deliveries today. He shows me his phone on it the delivery partner app, it has the order details, shows my name and address, and the amount to collect. And he's holding another phone with a Paytm QR code open on it ready to be scanned.

The bells didn't ring yet for me, instead, I asked him which company he was from, and which company is this package, with genuine curiosity to find out where this package came from. With these questions he just goes like its okay sir I'll cancel the order, i have other deliveries to finish and pulls the package from my hand and starts walking away quickly.

I'm still clueless and almost go back to minding my business that's when I gave a second thought and came to the conclusion that I was almost scammed.

I'll highlight points that convinced me that it was a scam.

* The box was extremely light as if there was nothing inside it. It was generic cardboard box, no branding at all.
* The label on the box had no mention of it being cod, and I checked all my order histories, SMS, and emails. There was no notification of a delivery. I verified with frnds as well no one ordered.
* As soon as I started asking questions in a chill tone, he got defensive and just wanted to bolt, he suggested he will cancel the order and leave. I mean amazon guys if I wanted to reject an legit delivery would scoff and make faces as if i wasted their time.

But, one thing that doesn't make sense is he had a legit looking delivery app, like there was the map of the area, with few pins on the buildings and he tapped on the pin on our building and it loaded the order details, where my details and amount were there, but oddly no complete order/ contact buttons.

What do you guys think was it a scam, or maybe a legit delivery? Has anyone experienced something similar?

&amp;#x200B;

P.S. Sorry for the lengthy post.