SOURCE: Reddit - r/Gurgaon
CITY: Gurgaon
TITLE: Got so triggered by these incessant scam calls that I decided to visit the cyber police station to complain, BUT...
AUTHOR: deepthroatle
DATE: 2024-12-02
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/gurgaon/comments/1h4qxwu/got_so_triggered_by_these_incessant_scam_calls/
--- POST TEXT ---

La long long rant!!!

Like everyone else, I've had my share of scam calls which most of the times I either don't pick up or just hang up after hearing.

But today, I was so fuckin free that I decided to engage with one in the morning. The regular FedEx scam, but surprisingly they had my phone number, name and email (all accurate!). After about 5 mins hearing their non sense, I almost abused the Pakis (could figure it out) and they hung the call.

Minding my own business, get another call a couple hours later, this time from a paki number. Did not see the number initially and picked up the phone. Again that flailing Pakistani accent and this time they were from the telecom department. Apparently transferred my number to a delhi police station where I eventually did the same thing as the first and hey hung up.
However, got another 2 calls from an Indian (hyd) landline number from the same group saying we had transferred your call to the ps, whatever happened? And I'm like WTF!

So I decided to call up the cyber crime helpline on 1930 and they advised to report it on the cybercrime website. The link to register complaint did not work for about 20 mins when I decided to go to the cyber crime police station on gcx to report this and block the numbers.

The only intention was to save at least someone from these scamster and hoped that the guys at the cyber crime ps would help. But boy, I was wrong and how!!

Was first asked to go to a lady who was literally watching YouTube or insta videos on her phone and said that will have to report it on the website only. Upon my insistence, she mentions that they also have to report on the same website so if it's not working for me, it won't work for them too. I further confronted saying that why are they there then, to which now another colleague replied asking if I was doing it from my phone. The fucker then had an audicity on my positive response to tell me in a condescending voice to go to a cyber cafe a d report it.

This was it. I lost it and raised my voice a little higher saying that what is the point of this station. You guys have access to the internet and why couldn't you do it. The guy seemed to respond something but it was now muted for me to not understand. Another colleague referred me to the ASI, who of course wasn't even in the station.

Another person in the ASI room tried to pacify me and gave me a few logics which seemed fair and asked me to report it from a laptop or a desktop.

As a chutiya law abiding tax paying citizen of this great country, I went out, lit a cigarette, stood and smoke in amazement outside the cyber crime ps and drove back to my home.