SOURCE: Reddit - r/Thane
CITY: Thane
TITLE: Shame on you Veena World 
AUTHOR: Harshvardhan_Shetye_
DATE: 2025-01-10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/thane/comments/1hxz2jt/shame_on_you_veena_world/
--- POST TEXT ---

Veena world tried to scam us. My sister recently booked a vacation to dubai. It was a 10 days holiday trip. She was suppose to go on 12 th January 2025. She had paid 3 lakhs on 18th December 2024, she had provided all the documents, plus she is also a USA visa holder so it is easier for her to get any countries Visa. 

3 days befor the trip, we get a message from veena world that she visa has got cancled. When we spoke to them they didn't give any reason for its cancellation. So her first response was to tell her to reschedule the trip. Veena world said we cant do that, you cant reschedule when your trip date is so close. Then we asked for a cancellation and refund, they again gave the same reason, it can't be refunded and cant be cancelled so close to your trip date.

Now here were the issue comes, my sister is a very experienced traveller she knows alot about visa and its processing. She immediately found out that dubai visa only takes 4 days of processing not more. If we had paid money on 18th dec 2024 and even if they prcoessed the visa at 19th or 20th Dec, how can they tell us about its status only when there are only 3-4 days left. This was very fishy and they didnt even want to give us a refund, that means we are losing 3 lakh.

So we went to the office and spoke to the staff what is the issue. After alot of discussion we told them to show is us the documents of visa processing and show us the date. Turns out they had processed the visa very very late. Around 5th January, and before getting any visa conformation, they had booked hotels, activities and everything earlier on. With what confidence do they do this ?? Without any visa conformation how can they book stay and activities?? 

This is so not okay. I just want to tell people to stay aware of veena world. The employee was lying to our face and hiding his mistake of him processing our visa late and not keeping any margin of rejection.

3 lakhs is not a joke veena world, its our middle class people's hard earned money. 

Shame on you veena world