SOURCE: Reddit - r/Hyderabad
CITY: Hyderabad
TITLE: Can my fellow hyderabadis explain this scam to me?
AUTHOR: kethh7
DATE: 2022-08-25
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/wx458d/can_my_fellow_hyderabadis_explain_this_scam_to_me/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hi everyone, 
•
I'm a part of an engineering solutions company which specializes in detailing, modeling and design works. We are basically sub contractors for bigger engineering companies. We have too much work at our hands and seem to constantly keep working. It's tiresome and detailing for the most part is robotic and hectic. 

Was in need of new design engineers who can partly manage dealing with clients and building good teams as we have many projects coming our way and wanted to expand. It was a work from home job mostly dealing with international clients, deadlines and a team of 8 people as we were expanding the workplace to a bigger location to accommodate everyone. Posted the job in LinkedIn and informed about the opening in my network. 

In a couple of days I get over a dozen entries and I sorted them based on their experience. One stood out, it was a woman, the resume was perfect, well written, great certifications and amazing skills I'm sure not going by reading the resumes but people who hire knows that feeling you get when you come across those one of a kind resumes. We basically don't hire women because most of them leave in a very short span I understand their POV as the clients are very invasive and have very strict deadlines and sometimes we require the candidate to survey/inspect the layout which doesn't really sit with most women. I'm not being sexist but my analytics can vouch for my statement. Back to the point, short listed this candidate as I wanted to interview 3 people out of the 15 applications as most of them were not whom we were looking for. 

Let's just call her DA. I asked my boss to take the interview coz I was busy that day, DA did amazing, I never hear those epic positive remarks from my boss as he's one typical "you should work your ass off everyday with no breaks or you're failing at life kind of a guy". I felt good and scheduled my interview as she would lead a team under me and I wanted to brief her on operations and work on salary negotiations. 

On scheduled date, she joins the meeting, myself, my other team leads are present and we were introducing ourselves, she was fine did great she hadn't talked much but it wasn't about her this time we were to present ourselves and I did the most talking that day. We concluded the day on a good note and salary negotiations were professional as I could see she had good command over what the market is and how much value she could provide. We settled closer to her side of the deal as I saw a good future prospect. 

Two days pass, it's the day of her joining as it was an auspicious day and she insisted on it the initial meeting was with her fellow team leader who would brief her on clients and team information. On the call he sensed something foul as she didn't sound like herself. And was paranoid that someone else was attending her call, I called it bs and told him the interview was on video conference and both me and my boss went through every detail before selecting her. He wanted a video chat aswell and asked her if she could join, she did and it was great again, totally killed it once again I was super impressed. 

She joins, her work day starts my team lead and DA both were in a meeting for more than 2 hours as he was to help her learn ins and outs of the company and how much time she has before she has to physically attend the office and about the hardware components we'd be sending to her and all that. 

My TL comes to me shows me the video of their conversation and I realized some crazy shit was going on, she didn't even seem like she passed 10th class. She didn't even know how to pronounce clients, she was referring to them as clints as in Clint Eastwood. We all scratched our heads gathered all the video evidence of her for couple of days compared it to her interviews and I asked her to attend another interview in person which she rejected as she was in warangal. I confronted her showing her the video evidence and told her I'd blacklist her to which she started crying and cut the call blatantly. 

Didn't really blacklist her as I'm yet to know how she managed such a high tech scam. My theory was she had a twin who was super educated and just looked like her. But this didn't really make sense. 

TLDR: I was looking for a good candidate for a team lead role in my company, listed the job, and got a dozen offer letters, shortlisted 3 candidates and out of 3, one person had all my attention. As her resume was an ideal match and I felt she was more than capable of handling everything we present her. I set up an Interview of her with my boss because I couldn't. And to my surprise even my boss who's very keen on details liked her way too much and wanted her on the team. She excelled in communication skills, her vocab was as broad as Shashi Tharoor and she had great work experience. Me and my boss completely impressed we hired her. Before joining my TL had a voice only call and he felt there was something shady going on with her, he came to me with it and we dismissed it as we were super blind to even hear what he had to say, showed him the interviews and even he was baffled and told us she sounded different. 
On the day of joining the whole thing was super clear, we were cheated and my TL was smarter than us, he smelled something foul and we didn't take him seriously, she couldn't talk, all her communication skills vanished, she had no personality no confidence absolute dead body. Gathered all the video evidence we needed for the next two days, made sure she knows nothing about whatever she stated in her resume, day 3 we confronted her told her we had all the evidence and would black list her, she cried and cut the call now isn't available. 

I'm happy to answer your questions but, I want to avoid this in the future so, please educate me on this scam.