SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: Life does change , Im happier
AUTHOR: Scarred_Shot
DATE: 2023-08-16
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/15s9qj4/life_does_change_im_happier/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hi everyone , I just wanted to let everyone know about the state of freedom and internal fulfilment and clarity I was striving for 5 years now . This post could be very inspiring for all of you and I promise you all that things do change , never let your succumb to your circumstances. 

I am an INFJ 20M , pursuing 2ndyr Btech in Top IITs , Delhi NCR, is a very emotional guy was a person who really cared about people , is very understanding, would go out of the way for helping others and was very kind and caring in my past relationships. 

I was a very smart kid , very intelligent and intuitive, I used to score exceptionally well since grade 1 by studying a day before the exams and I still do in sem exams :p 
However my downfall started since i entered class 9th . 
My Household was very abusive and they always rejected or avoided my emoitons , which would lead to me having a bad childhood, i formed a relationship with my best friend from childhood at an early age as she would always shower me with hugs and listen to me . 

Moving forward I had a little sister about 11 years young , since my dad was working in America, and my mom didn't want me to go and study there ( she wanted me to clear Jee) , I was all left alone and my mom always emotionally ignored me and pushed me to study hard since grade6 , I was exceptionally well student but this affected my brain a lot , I was slowly becoming emotionally unstable , I was dependent on my 1st gf ( my best friend) , fast forward I was put in coaching VMC in 9th , jee really fucked me and to top it off I couldn't relax at home or at my school , because I was bullied there and scolded /beaten at home . In 10th I fell into severe depression, no one helped me , suffered depression again in 11th and 12th( COVID year) . I was so depressed i couldn't talk to my gf , she motivated me to study here and there but she never showed what she truly wants from me . 

Vmc was shit , they didn't complete the syllabus and combined with my mental state , I fucked up my exams and came out with 97%ile jee mains and 30k rank jee advanced. 

I took a drop and went to kota Allen , first two months were fine and full of energy , then my gf reached out to me and I found out she was cheating on me , she didn't tell me this until she called me over for making out and hugging , I came to her without knowing what's wrong with her and my concerned ass went to her , she was my childhood friend for 10 years and my gf, I was ready to come for her to Delhi , she ghosted me and then told me that she is cheating on me , she kept saying wait for me , I don't love you , I love you on and off for months . 
This fucked up my mental health, I was unable to eat , sleep , study , lost my appetite completely , or overate , fell in severe depression, tried committing suicide 3times , I somehow got up and got a good rank studying a week before the jee mains exams , I got 99.4 %ile 
We broke up a month before jee advanced and this made me fucked for the entire month as my only support was fucking me up , i studied again a week before jee advanced and got 5.5 k rank . 

I was not happy tho , i felt sad I had no one to share it with my mom and dad always scolded and still found loopholes in my things . I was detached to them as i had tried communicating my feelings regarding my gf but that too failed . I lost them completely. 

Before College i made an online friend who was quite love bombing , and she started flirting with me within a week , she was in kota so when I went to kota to pack my bags I met her , she made out with me , and i instantly caught feelings . I tried finding a good partner in her and i wanted to commit to the relationship, she however was messing with my mind because her on shit was fucked , her neet exam , she was mentally ill , had adhd . She fucked up my mind because i cared for her and the relationship, but she was too selfish always wanted time but never understood me , I felt neglected again . I broke up with her after she started flaring out absuses everyday . I feel into depression again 
My first semester was fucked , i wanted branch change , got 8.7 CG could've got EE but now i couldn't regret . 

I was mentally very tired , I felt unloved , unwanted and unlovable , I felt like no matter how much I do for others , women just don't do the same for me , I can never find a good woman. 

In my 2nd Sem 
I started working on projects , did a internship but my mental health was deteriorating , I was sexually and mentally frustrated, then I found another girl who changed my life completely let's call her (AS) 

I loved AS , we met online too , she was very energetic, full of life , she taught me so many ways to engage , so many fields I missed in because of my mental health, she made me feel understood , loved . We were very compatible, we were perfect,, we were best friends most importantly however things happened fast between us , because we were both mentally distressed, we wanted an escape, although we were the right thing but it just happens to happen a tthe wrong time. 

I loved her so much , we never left each other's side . I was complete her and she would complete me , I was happy i finally got the love i wanted . She was the first sexual encounter I had , we were very comfortable with each other, we did a lot of things that I cannot explain but stuff like that just showed the honesty and genuinity of the relationship.She helped me in my 2nd sem She had met my mom and knew the entire family , I knew her family too and most of her friends knew me . Everything was going alright , a perfectly healthy relationship it was . She was going through a recent breakup and had neet , she was fucked too . Her exams didn't go well despite her hard work , she was very hardworking , she sacrificed so much for neet . 

However she was a fulfilled person till 10th as she loved sports , she was very cheerful, neet got her in her drop year . Which ultimately affected our relationship, 
She started to realise 2 months into our relationship that she is not emotionally available and she cannot continue this relationship as she isn't able to feel any love for me . I was hopeful her stress will fade away but she went into a bad phase , which affected me , I was ghosted 

Recently i discovered I have anxious attachment style , which is in recovery at the moment. Here and there i used to get anxiety attacks if i thought someone I love is leaving me . 

So that happened , she was hopeful that we could get back together as she would try to love me again but she cared for me so much we would still talk as great friends. 

Soon after the sem break in 15 days down the 3rd sem starting ( which is now ) , earlier we had decided to not talk and work on ourselves and maybe come back 6-7 months later , she would make jokes about making me jealous from other guys and i always took them for love. However , one day , we started talking and i was adamant that one day we will probably come together na , to kahi mat jaio , lekin. That shook her . 

Personally I feel she was very frustrated and she still is , but that is her , she told me she doesn't love me anymore, she couldn't feel it and that's why she is ending it , she told me to not wait for her even though we were perfect but it was about her not me . 

I was heartbroken and honestly enraged that why despite doing everything, despite being so perfect, we couldn't last all because of a stupid feeling. 

We had done so many things together, kept a diary together that we thought we would give each other one day after writing it everyday . 

Whatever shit went through her brain , I wanted to stay as friends however I was so sad and crying all the time that she thought friends is not okay , she blocked me unfollowed me and I asked her to keep the friendship intact as i really valued it . 

She didn't pick up any of my calls , no response , simply I tried a lot but then I was so done that I gave so much into the relationship that I had blocked her and deleted her contact . 

I had no friends to share with , no family , only my cousin sister . Tbh I love her a lot even to this day. 

But one thing that happened to me after that , i stopped giving too much fucks , i became free , i started loving but in a more cautious way , I don't feel sad , but i did everything i could , I loved her till the end and tried understanding her everyday . 

She showed me how much I can love as a person and I am not unlovable, I can love pretty hard but I need a more mature and certain person in my life , maybe 3-4 years down the line I'll find that. 

I don't wait for her , I am done with her , I am tired , tired of wanting to be understood , tired of begging for love. 

AS really came for a solid reason in my life and , i love her even today, I'll probably not get out of it for a while but it doesn't make me sad anymore or depressed it's weird that I feel more joyous and happy instead . Because, only because of her i could find my capacity to love , my capacity to be a better person, my capacity to form healthy loving relationships . 

For some reason i feel more motivated to work now , I don't feel stressed about my studies anymore , I feel energetic, i feel free. I FINALLY FOUND FREEDOM!! And I know how much I can love . 
I am very grateful to AS and I love her till I die , I'll be with her any day of my life . And I hope she fixes her life asap . 

I wasn't able to work , I was frustrated, i now feel so motivated, I don't feel depressed or suicidal . Which is a very wierd occurance to me since she meant everything to me . 

But I guess that's what true love is , right? 

My love never fades for anyone , that spoke enough for me , her love faded fast , that spoke enough for her mental state. 

I finally feel happy and i don't chase love or comfort in relationships anymore . 

I find the real world more beautiful now , i enjoy watching things now , I am able to do everything I wasn't after 5 years of constant misery!!! 

All thanks to AS . 
You taught me a lot , thanks . 
I love you 3000