SOURCE: Reddit - r/Agra
CITY: Agra
TITLE: Trip to the Taj
AUTHOR: grilled_Champagne
DATE: 2023-10-27
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Agra/comments/17hfwwo/trip_to_the_taj/
--- POST TEXT ---

Just completed a whirlwind short tour of Agra. First evening went to Mehtab bag (parking ₹100, Parking to Bagh cart ₹20 per person). Things have drastically changed from the last time I visited many years ago. City looks greener and cleaner. Highways are meant to connect cities but this one is built to bypass the exact city it is meant to connect. You take Yamuna expressway from Delhi, visit the Taj and come back. You won't even have to visit Agra. Don’t over speed on Yamuna Expressway. I was e-Fined 2000. I was doing 117 on 100KM road.

SC has put a zoning restriction in around 1km(?) radius of Taj. No personal vehicles are allowed in that buffer zone. Parking is available for full day for ₹100. From parking to Taj gate there are govt battery operated golf carts that charge ₹20 per person to ferry. However, the fight to get into the cart can go crazy, there is no queue or order. In the parking, there is a guide office. Official rate is ~₹2000 for a tour of Taj and Agra fort. If you want to take only half day Taj only tour it's around ₹1000. There are multiple variations like foreign language, bigger group, female guides etc with varying rates.

There are many hotels in the buffer zone. Right from Oberoi Amarvilas (down) to UP govt Tajkhema (closest hotel from East Gate). I also saw Bhoomi Vilas, Taj resort, Atulya Taj, Hotel Rashmi. I have absolutely no idea about their quality. Search for reviews online.

We stayed at Hotel Taj Vilas which is around 2KMs from Taj parking. It was a good hotel and gave us good bargain (3k per night for double bed with breakfast). You can check it. It has its own parking space. Plus the hotel is bang opps McD. That adds a fooding option too.

For dinner, we went to “Pinch of Spice” near Sanjay Talkies. The two mutton dishes we ordered were just heavenly. For lunch, went to Pind Baluchi on Fatehabad Road close to our hotel. Dal Makhni was to die-for. Heard a lot about “Salt Café” here but gave it a wide berth considering its high price point.

Everywhere you park it’s 100 bucks. Seemed like a scam but no other option. Mehtab Bag or Taj View Point were nice. Mehtab Bagh stops ticket sale 40-45 mins before sunset time. Same with Agra Fort. Not sure about Taj.

Coming to Petha, Panchhi petha is a famous brand. We went to its main shop in Sadar but didn’t feel like buying from there. Instead, purchased from Gopal Das Pethe Wale next to ITC Mughal.

That’s it. Tried to keep it comprehensive. Anything else, you want to know, DM me.