SOURCE: Reddit - r/Hyderabad
CITY: Hyderabad
TITLE: Scammed by delhivery need help taking action
AUTHOR: Phnx1312
DATE: 2025-04-21
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1k4izmv/scammed_by_delhivery_need_help_taking_action/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hi , 

I want to share my experience with Delhivery shipping, and possibly if someone can help me with how i can get it resolved 

I had sent some parts for repair to a friend and he was shipping them back using shiprocket delhivery surface, 
Now i was out of country for 2 days that delhivery guy tried to deliver the package. I came back on sunday and the agent called i told him to come and deliver , my phone at that time with an esim went for auto update just before he came to my society. I had an older otp which i provided him but that didnt work , so i told him to come abit later after my phone restarts but he never showed up , over call he asked for otp i gave him whatever was on my phone . Then he says 3 otp attempts were made and he cant deliver today? I even provided id proof but he refused . I contacted his manager who simply said system doesn’t allow , after abit of convincing he said he would deliver again at 3:30 with new otp , after that i didnt get any response from him any more calls would goto voice mail. I created a complaint on their site which didn’t do anything. 

Today morning I contacted the manager and he said he has returned the package, i recorded the call and repeated everything he said to me yesterday he was suddenly abit more cooperative and agreed to deliver again? 

I should have known this was a scam now at 5pm i see a status update like package was refused by customer. I will try to goto their office tomorrow but i dont know what else can be done , package is worth around 4k . The support ticket i created only gives generic response and manager wont answer calls or just says idk bro and hangs up.

Name of manager: naveen 
Branch: 2-31/H/14 taranagar , chandanagar

If anyone has any contact number or location of the office since i cant find it on google maps any help would be appreciated.