SOURCE: Reddit - r/Bengaluru
CITY: Bengaluru
TITLE: Need feedback on these ten one-liners and jokes I'm working on
AUTHOR: zeer0dotcom
DATE: 2024-10-25
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Bengaluru/comments/1gbocj5/need_feedback_on_these_ten_oneliners_and_jokes_im/
--- POST TEXT ---

1. After the recent cloudburst in North Bengaluru, there were reports of people abandoning cars on the ORR and walking home - so they finally did what they've always wanted to do!
2. The building which collapsed in Babusapalya was first seen tilting dangerously before finally collapsing - the Italian city of Pisa has offered assistance to the BBMP to keep this from happening again.
3. The BBMP says that Bengaluru can handle around 80mm of rainfall every day…which happens to be the amount of paan generated every day
4. Did you hear about the Hyderabad woman who was scammed out of 44 lakhs after being put under “digital arrest” by cyber criminals? The scam was detected only when her friends got worried after not seeing any WhatsApp rants from her during her “digital arrest”.
5. Delhi’s BJP chief fell sick after taking a dip in the Yamuna river at an event organized to highlight pollution in the Yamuna river. This makes about as much sense as Vladimir Putin’s enemies taking walks near windows to highlight how dangerous windows can be.
6. The Chennai government is launching pink autos to be driven by women - finally, men will have to learn to accept it when a woman says NO.
7. The Supreme Court has just ruled that your Aadhar card is NOT a valid document for age verification - only school leaving certificates are valid. What are they going to do - use carbon dating to verify the age of the SLC?
8. Canadians are mad that so many Indian immigrants have gone over in the last few years. It’s odd considering the hue and cry they are making over the Indian government allegedly ordering a hit on a Sikh Canadian.
9. Nirmala Sitharaman says job creation is the biggest challenge facing governments worldwide. She is doing her part by providing cringe quotes for meme makers.
10. The aviation ministry plans to put people sending bomb threats on a no-fly list. Would it not make MUCH more sense to put these guys ON the plane with the alleged bomb - a YOU-WILL-FLY list as it were.