SOURCE: Reddit - r/Salem
CITY: Salem
TITLE: PSA: Solar companies and door to door sales or "free energy assessments"
AUTHOR: budlightguy
DATE: 2023-05-02
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/SALEM/comments/1357cbk/psa_solar_companies_and_door_to_door_sales_or/
--- POST TEXT ---

So it seems like it's that time of year again, when I notice an uptick in solar companies knocking on my door offering "free energy assessments" (i.e. trying to get a foot in the door so they can start throwing around a ton of numbers and lingo and acronyms, and put on the high pressure sales tactics) or trying to sell solar Power purchase agreements (leases) or "free" solar (0 down high interest loans you'll be paying on for 20-30 years). 
 
Now I already have solar so I'm 100% immune to this tripe. I'm happy with my system, though I am considering adding battery to it for the occasional power outage (without a battery storage system, grid tied solar shuts down during an outage because backfeeding energy to the grid when workers are working on an outage is dangerous and not allowed). 
 
However, I wanted to post a reminder to people that there is an absolute wealth of information available online about solar, and about local companies offering solar installation and products... and if you're thinking about going solar (which I absolutely encourage if it's right for your use scenario and property), PLEASE do some research on your own. Go online, reach out to friends or family or neighbors who have solar and ask questions, without a salesperson or lead generation person right there laying the pressure on you and trying to dazzle you with BS. Get informed a little, think it through, and arm yourself with at least the basics so you can have a better chance of spotting scams, bad deals, and predatory garbage and steer clear of it. 
 
Then find a few companies locally who have good reviews and reputations, and reach out to them and get quotes. Then choose the best amongst those (not necessarily the cheapest, but the best combination of product/service/price) for you. 
 
While there may be some lease programs/power purchase agreement programs/0 down loan programs out there that *aren't* predatory or overpriced, or out and out scams... 
A lot of these programs are very convoluted, have a lot of caveats, and the "savings" the salespeople are quoting make a lot of assumptions that may not hold true. 
There's a lot of people out there who have been had by, how shall we say... less than perfectly honest companies... and sold on an idea of massive savings that never materialize. 
 
Also, not that I want to discourage anyone from considering solar, but with interest rates being what they are right now... I don't know that doing any sort of loan to install solar makes sense right now. The interest alone, on top of the system costs (which have massively increased since I had mine done in 2019), will eat up a ton of your savings. 
 
Anyway... one good resource that I used to do some research before finding local companies to get quotes from was Energysage. 
 
https://www.energysage.com/solar/ 
 
They do have a tool to sign up and get quotes from local installers that have been screened by them, but you don't have to use it. You can just read all the stuff about solar on there, learn a little about how the systems work and such, and be somewhat informed before you reach out to companies to get quotes... so you will at least be somewhat armed to smell any obvious BS.