SOURCE: Reddit - r/Hyderabad
CITY: Hyderabad
TITLE: *scam alert* 
AUTHOR: Sofisticated-human
DATE: 2024-04-28
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1cfb0l3/scam_alert/
--- POST TEXT ---

My sister has recently been a victim of this scam. She went to some tailor shop in old city, which is run by some muslim guys. After going there, she said that she wanted some anarkali type of dress and those guys started taking measurements of her. Soon a lady came and said that measurements won't be accurate if they are taken over a dress, and asked my sister to go to the trail room which basically had a small curtain rather than door. My sister was hesitant, but somehow they convinced her to go to that trail room and strip till her inner wear. While the lady was taking her measurements in the trail room, some guy sitting in the shop told her that stitches of her clothes are weak and he will do an extra layer of stitch for 20₹, to which my sister agreed in a hurry. 

After that, they told her that her clothes are stuck in the sewing machine and it's because of her negligence and clothes that their machines are to be repaired. My sister argued that it's not her fault and asked them to return her clothes somehow. They asked her to phonepe 20k for the repairs and damage done by her. When sister decided to be adamant that she won't pay them a single rupee, the lady just unhooked and removed the curtain from the hanger. My sister had no other chance, but to come out of that trail room and call to me. I received a call from her sending the QR scanner and to pay them 20k urgently, I thought she was in some restaurant partying with her friends. I had some UPI server issues and it took me some 15 minutes to complete the transaction, all that time she had to face the embarrassment while standing in her lingerie in that tailoring shop. The next day we went to that shop again and when we tried to argue with them about the money our bike was surrounded by goons who threatened us to leave. And when I went to the police station to file an FIR, they were asking my sister some irrelevant questions and we just left from there. 

To the laddies, reading this never listen to the tailors who ask you for stuff like this. Be careful 🙏