SOURCE: Reddit - r/Gurgaon
CITY: Gurgaon
TITLE: Security deposit dispute with fellow flatmate
AUTHOR: addyk31
DATE: 2024-10-10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/gurgaon/comments/1g0hsrr/security_deposit_dispute_with_fellow_flatmate/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hi everyone! My first post on this subreddit after having been a lurker for the better part of a year now and I urgently need your advice!

I shifted to Gurgaon just last year and was living in a rented 3BHK flat along with two other people (call them X and Y) till 3 months back. After having a few verbal disagreements with X and in general not feeling very comfortable in my flat, I decided to shift out of the house on the expiration of the lease after giving a proper one month’s written notice.

When I asked for the return of my security deposit, the owner redirected me to X and Y stating that since they were renewing the lease I would have to take the deposit from them. On probing they used to always use the excuse that they had not found a replacement and would return it once they found one and retrieved the deposit from him. Out of pity I gave them time and even helped them here and there to find someone. Since Y was my friend from office I thought that in any case there wouldn’t be any issue, so I was very relaxed regarding the whole situation and waited for about 2-2.5 months. 

Only after probing Y did I find out that they had already gotten my replacement and had taken the deposit from him as well. Since X was in charge of the house (he does WFH) Y used to always redirect me to X. I approached X but he continuously ignored me or would give me some later time to call. Finally he sent me a split declaring that he was cutting 90% of my deposit amount owing to various charges incurred after my vacating the flat as well as my previous balances (which are completely bogus and I have payment proofs of almost everything). I argued with him over the phone but he was not ready to listen and always used his seniority over me (4 years) to argue out of any point ‘main senior hun mujhe pata hain gurgaon mein kya hota hain’. I know he is doing this just out of revenge for not renewing the lease.

Now knowing the scene in Gurgaon and even in other cities regarding bachelors, I know that a 100% refund is not possible. However even during the call I argued that I should atleast get 70-80% back but he was adamant that he would give only 10%. I tried involving my mom and the owner as well but the owner blocked my mom and X and Y ignored her pleas. 

The deposit amount is small in the long run (2 months’ rent) but the thing that is causing me a lot of mental anguish is the betrayal and fraud that I have faced not at the hands of the owner but at the hands of my OWN EX FLATMATES! I am feeling helpless considering that Y (who I thought was my friend) and the owner (who I thought was just) were both against me and I have lost 90% of my amount.

I have thought of talking to X in person but the only thing that scares me is a chance of violence since he has a small amount of a hooligan background. The owner also has some small connections in BJP hence I am afraid to file a police complaint.

I want to ask for advice from the members of this subReddit on what should be my plan of action???
Thanks a lot for reading through my (very lengthy) post 🙏🏿🙏🏿