SOURCE: Reddit - r/Pune
CITY: Pune
TITLE: Unethical Marketing tactics by Eat Club.
AUTHOR: Junior_Accident9968
DATE: 2023-07-02
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/pune/comments/14okjdp/unethical_marketing_tactics_by_eat_club/
--- POST TEXT ---

tl;dr: i was offered gag money to take down a bad review about the food app. Would like to know if someone faced similar situations?

I had ordered food from this aggregator called EatClub. It's like an aggregator for cloud kitchens that are franchises given out by EarClub itself I think. So the franchise out the restaurant and then allow you to order online. (I hope you get what I am saying)

My food not only came like after 1.5 hours or something(for around 1.5 kms mind you), but also the app didn't disclose delivery times while ordering. And even after ordering, it kept showing me a false delivery time. So there was no way to tell how long the food would take.

I tried to call the restaurant manager multiple times, but he doesn't pick up the call. So I tried the Customer Care option for the order, which is totally fake. It's just a bunch of options which don't allow you to talk to a bot even.

The 'where is my order?' option that has a chat feature, is only managed by bots who do nothing to help expedite the process. The omly way to talk to an actual human is to try and cancel your order. That's the only scenario where they will allow you to talk to a human.

The customer care executive also doesn't me cancel, since they claim the food prepared. Although on my app it shows preparing, and there is no way to know what really the status is. The food shows up 45 mins after this conversation. While it practically can't take so long from the kitchen to my office.

Due to the delay, and all this confusion, I chose to eat something else since I was really hungry. (I understand if there is a rush in the kitchen. It was peak lunch hour. I admit a delay is to be expected. All I am saying is at least be honest with one's customer and disclose it. And also, this is someone's lunch we are talking about. Which is something all people look forward to having. May be it won't burden one's kitchen so much and ruin one's reputation.)

So the food basically has to be consumed later, but I couldn't take it home since my eveing meals are home cooked. I manage to finish it with my colleagues.

I post a review saying all of this on the Playstore and give the app a 1 star rating. I instantly get a call from the customer care executive offering me a full refund to take down my review. I say that I will think about it. They give me a refund. Today they called again to remind me to take down my review.

This is just so pathetic. Not only is it untlethical, but also unfair to other customers. They should know if an app has bad customer service. The delay is understandable, but what I cannot comprehend is what companies or people in general get out of not being transparent.

Anybody have a similar experience?