SOURCE: Reddit - r/Chandigarh
CITY: Chandigarh
TITLE: Vrindavan Restored my Faith in Humanity! (Trip Update) 
AUTHOR: Ok-Obligation-8731
DATE: 2024-03-19
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chandigarh/comments/1bi1fga/vrindavan_restored_my_faith_in_humanity_trip/
--- POST TEXT ---

The following is solely based on my experience hence can vary! 

1. On day 1 at Radha Vallabh after the aarti a priest asked me if I was lost and if I would like to join further to Banke Bihari ; assuming he might scam me I resisted. ( cont at pt 4)

2. Booked a hostel one day before the trip and almost thought it did not exist since no rikshaw wala ever heard of it &amp; was way to cheap ; only 400bucks ( Your homes ) . But their it was ….
Uncle ji was pretty sweet and guided me honestly about everything the next day . The bunk beds were cool and met this amazing bunch ( Dhruv, Ansh and Jaanu incase you guys read it lol) who told me about premanada maharaja and took me for his darshan at Brahamurat 3am.

3. Just didn’t realise I was out of cash and no vendor was even sparing 50 extra bucks in turn of upi even when I bought plenty of stuff and requested them just to ₹50 instead of upi so that I could go to the atm . Out of the blue a gentleman asked me if I required help. Did the upi and exchanged cash . God bless him

Done with all except Banke Bihari 

4. On day 2 in the market I accidentally met the sevadar again and he was convinced this was not a coincidence and he ought to make me do the darshan . This time I went along telling him lucidly if this is a scam please go away. He took me to gate 1 then gate 3 all of em were closed. 
Via the final entrance he took me through made me meet the Maharaj ji over their. He was too kind and sweet . Having a darshan for a few seconds is enough but they took me to a ramp where thy in I watched the entire prayer before the gates being closed .
After the temple doors shut I did the seva by cleaning the temple . Maharaj ji told me to clean along the doors of banke bihari and gave me a beautiful flower mala, a morpankh and a radha krishna engraving kept along side him.

I literally started crying and apologised thinking of them scamming me . They told the only thing I owe to them is doing bhajan and remembering Krishna daily.
Gave me the prasad and happily dropped me at the gate wishing me a safe travel back &amp; next time mummy papa ko bhi lana.

Was my first solo trip as female traveller &amp; was no less than a bliss . I did not want to come back ; mentally am still their 🥹

Radhe Radhe 🙏🏻✨