SOURCE: Reddit - r/Gurgaon
CITY: Gurgaon
TITLE: Am I the Asshole for stopping someone from donating?
AUTHOR: ellokindfellow
DATE: 2024-09-12
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/gurgaon/comments/1ff2ja8/am_i_the_asshole_for_stopping_someone_from/
--- POST TEXT ---

While this is not the official subreddit, it is relevant to the location and experience.

Today, at Sector 42-43 rapid metro station, I came across a girl being persuaded by two young individuals to donate to a trust called Breakthrough. I stopped to ask them if they are from MagicBus Foundation and rhey said no. They were very polite in explaining things, looking at her. I asked them if they have a official website to which they said yes, I asked if we can donate through that, they again said yes. So I told them she can do that to which they replied that that they actually require the transaction ID to be mentioned on the form they the girl apparently would have to fill up. Now the girl was about to walk away since they started replying to me (I stopped her when they looked at her, and told her to wait a minute when she said she is getting late - so was I), then turned around to them and said thank you, we will do it through the website. And moved away. I told her about my past experience and reservation regarding such asks in person. (Which I feel guilty about now lookimg at how politely they said okay in the end to me mentioning the mode) and moving her away. 

About two months ago, in extreme summer, at Sector 55-56, I was stopped by two individuals from MagicBus Foundation for donation. Now, because of being aware of the organisation, I gave them time. I told them I am low on funds and can't donate, they convinced me with lots of pleading. I donated 1500- jispe they demanded that I can make it 2000 - I gave them a bewildered look at that and told them that this is the max. After I made the UPI payment on what looked like the business, they said I will receive am official mail from MBF as well (they said this in the beginning as well when I was asking them if they are fake and making a fool,etc). Believing it would help some kids and these interns are standing for so long, I made the donation. Almost three months now, I have received no mail and did not sight them at the station again afger that day. So, I felt betrayed and hence have this feeling such things may be a scam. 

I told the girl and she said it's good I informed her and got her out of the situation anyway. Plsu, she honestly seemed as gullible as me. Nice person. 

Now, I may have done this because I experienced this, but I feel really guilty that I have stopped something good from happening - if they were legit.