SOURCE: Reddit - r/Hyderabad
CITY: Hyderabad
TITLE: Beware of this couple
AUTHOR: thathachill
DATE: 2025-01-29
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1icni6l/beware_of_this_couple/
--- POST TEXT ---

I had a stressful Monday and planned to let off some steam by taking a midnight ride around the city. Enjoyed my ride in the chilly weather and stopped near the ITC to take few pictures of the bike. The road was almost empty but I noticed a couple on the opposite side of the street hand in hand. Didn’t pay much attention to them, finished admiring my bike and started back home. 

I took the U-turn and was on my way to my home, the couple I saw from across the road gestured me to stop. They looked like a decent people, well dressed and all. When I stopped the woman asked if I had a lighter. I said I don’t have it but I remember there was a box of matches where I stopped the bike for pictures. It was just 100mts from where they were and told them they might find the match box there. 

The girl asked me if I can take her to the spot. I tried pointing out the exact location but she insisted to take her to the spot. I was not suspicious till then, but the guys said “give her a ride man” and something felt odd about the whole thing. I was hesitant but took her to the spot, found the matchbox and returned. While returning she hugged me from the back like I was her boyfriend and asked me if I was from North India. She asked me to take her for a longer ride, I acted like I didn’t hear and dropped her back near the guy.

She got down from the bike but started acting weird. She was being over friendly, got back up on the bike and sat sideways. Asked the guy to click a picture, asked me if she could sit in the front holding the handle. I was trying not to be rude, so I got down from the bike, put the stand on and give her the bike for the picture. While the boyfriend was taking the picture he asked if I was interested in a THREESOME. Naku fuselu egirinay. I nervously laughed and said I have to go. She was not getting up from the bike and this guy started telling that they have a flat and booze. She started saying “leave it. Shayad usko mein pasand nehi aya”. I said that it is not the case but I have work in sometime and I have to be at home. 

I have been rod single for 1 year and thought threesomes only happen in porn. I was desperate but not as desperate to have a threesome with the strangers I met on the road.

 Assala em avthundhi raa ane time ki… she took out the keys from the bike and started saying that I should come. All this was happening in a jovial tone when suddenly the guy started abusing in pure Haryanvi Delhi slang. And this crazy bitch started acting up, saying that I won’t get my keys back. That sudden tone change made my balls shiver. Nobody was around and this girl was threatening that she has my pictures with her on the bike and all. I understood that I fucked up and shouldn’t look weak or they’ll extort me. I got back from the shock and started shouting back at them to give my keys back. I removed my phone to call the cops but aa tension lo face id was not working as I had the helmet on. I removed the helmet and I don’t know if it’s the adrenaline or animal instinct that kicked in… aa helmet tho Lanjeee ani dhani nethi meedha kotta….grabbed the keys from her hand….helmet tank meedha petti venakki thiragakunda intiki vachesa.

I don’t know what would have happened if I was desperate enough to go with them. Two days nunchi ucha padthundhi.

Did anyone else face such incidents? Is this some kind of scam? 

I went to relieve my stress and came back with a probable attempt to murder. The only photo they have of me is with a helmet. I didn’t hit her that hard also. I just hope she didn’t die.