SOURCE: Reddit - r/Gurgaon
CITY: Gurgaon
TITLE: Recruitment Scam
AUTHOR: SweetDull00
DATE: 2024-04-02
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/gurgaon/comments/1bu3wnb/recruitment_scam/
--- POST TEXT ---

Posting this here to caution against getting scammed.

Few days back I received an email from a recruiter saying my profile has been shortlisted for an interview with Hitachi, for a role in Singapore. I didn’t care as I had not applied for any role and that’s not an industry I was interested in. But then I got a call asking me to make myself available for an interview on a Saturday. I agreed. On the day, I received a call from the consultant who connected me to the ‘interviewer’ on the same call. It was quite generic introduction and basic questions about my profile. The interviewer had a very strange accent which has neither Chinese/ Japanese nor Indian. Probably more African. On Monday, I got an email saying from a Hitachi domain saying I have been selected for the next round and I need to provide scanned copy of educational, professional documents along with passport and a background verification. The BGV was supposed to be done by myself which was strange (I even posted about it in this subreddit but it got deleted). I contacted the consultant about BGV and he gave me a contact who was supposed to get my BGV done and provide me a certificate. I called up this guy and he asked for Rs. 4500+GST. That’s when it struck me that this is a potential scam. Till this time, I was just taking it very casually so played by what they said. I then started my own investigation and confirmed this was a scam. What I found:

1. The email from Hitachi was from hr@teams-hitachi.asia. Now, Hitachi.asia is a legit Hitachi website. However, teams-hitachi.asia is a fraud website.

2. The consultant claimed to be from StreamlineHRServices, which again is a legit recruitment firm. However, his email address domain was @streamlinehrservice (not serviceS). This was hard to spot at the first go.

3. They tried to make the email as authentic as possible. They provided Hitachi Asia registration number and unique entity number in the email. While the reg number was correct, the other one was of Rolls Royce in Singapore.

4. Biggest of them all, Hitachi has put a scam alert on it’s official website saying scammers are using @team-hitachi.com domain.

Fin.