SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kolkata
CITY: Kolkata
TITLE: The Four Pillars of Democracy 
AUTHOR: 65th_government
DATE: 2024-08-18
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/kolkata/comments/1ev7x5g/the_four_pillars_of_democracy/
--- POST TEXT ---

At times when you are going through a lot of emotions at once, sometimes you need to take a back seat... Take deep breath and think . What I have witnessed off late that goes horribly wrong with us as a society is that we have stopped thinking. We don't have the patience to read , to learn and then act. We just react .

So here let's go down to basics. Any democracy has four pillars. In an ideal democracy, all four should be working for the people. However in south Asian democracies, Legislative and Executive remain in the backpocket of the government in power. So, let's face it, the people you vote to power, at the end of the day will work only to stay in power for themselves and another section (the opposition)will work to get the power for themselves. Our needs doesn't matter to them. Now coming down to the Executive like the police, the bureaucracy their scope is pretty much limited . They have to abide by whatever their bosses say. Simple . Like it happens in every organisation. So in a country like us whenever you are having a democratically elected government, you already start with two our of the four pillars of democracy already in rubbles.

That's why it's really important to keep the other two pillars of democracy at our side. However, the government will try to take those two from you as well. I remember, an interview of the then CM of Gujarat during the 2002 riots , where the reporter asks, looking back would you wanted to act any differently to stop the riots. I still remember the cold answer that politician gave, ' I wished I handled the media differently' What happens next with our media will be discussed for a long long time in future in the history books. 

So I think our first and only fight should be to take control of the media and protect the judiciary. The media should not run stories for their own TRPs or whatever their political masters ask to. The massive outrage of the RG Kar rape/murder incident happened due to the fact media highlighted it. However a similar incident happened in IIT BHU, which never got covered although students were protesting for a couple of months. The three accused who gang raped that women had pictures with the top leaders of our country (including PM) and even went to do election campaigns in MP post the rape. The reason probably many of you don't know this because media did not cover it. I don't live in Kolkata anymore, but am glad that the city took to the streets on the eve of independence day in a show of massive solidarity with the victim. However I would want that right to protest remain intact and the media covering it, rather than the same media showing and justifying clips of protestors homes being bulldozed off in some other parts of our country. So it's paramount that we set the narrative for the media, rather than people in power setting narrative through the media for us to consume. I think we need to be sensible , responsible and very much aware about how the media is running to protect democracy.

Lastly judiciary needs to be independent and needs to be protected, because they are the ones who can protect as from the other two broken pillars of democracy. If the police botches up investigation, let the court look into it. If someone is arrested illegally , let the court provide justice and protect them.

All in all, I wish all of you think more and then act, rather than just react. I saw so many theories and all in these sub over the past week. For someone from Kolkata but not staying here, people asked me here what actually happened, trust me there was no reliable answer for me to give just theories , many of which got disapproved as fake news. There's a common saying , then the truth starts walking , fake news have already covered the entire world twice.Understand this jeopardises the investigation only. So please my request act like responsible citizens, don't form and opinion unless you know everything about it . Be open to authenticity, even though it might completely discard what you were thinking or views. That's what open mindedness is all about right ? Please don't share photos of the victims. Never ever I have seen picture of the victim being shared so openly. 

Investigation is the job of the professionals who do it for a living, not ours. Trial is the job of the judiciary, not ours.

Ours job is to protect these institutions especially media and judiciary. And last but not the least, do everything in your capacity to make the society better, however small that might be. Rape is a function of a patriarchal society , coupled with perversion. You cannot control someone's perversion but you can go a long way to dismantle patriarchy. There is a reason North Eastern states in India are one the safest ones for women. We can learn a lot of things from people around us only, if only we are open minded in the truest sense.