SOURCE: Reddit - r/Gurgaon
CITY: Gurgaon
TITLE: New Scam Strategy 
AUTHOR: Vegetable-Job7956
DATE: 2024-05-10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/gurgaon/comments/1co88hx/new_scam_strategy/
--- POST TEXT ---

I was in office got a pre-recorded call from FedEx (+918102002692) saying a parcel I had sent has been undelivered to know more press 1. I pressed one, the guy on the other side you had sent a parcel from Mumbai to Taiwan which has been confiscated by Mumbai custom team as there was objectionable item. My wife's office is in Mumbai and does business with Taiwan. I thought maybe she would have had sent something. The FedEx guy said Sir seems your Aadhaar has been misused please report to Mumbai Crime Branch, I said okay. He then gave me details of the parcel, said it contains 5 international passports, 2 credit cards, 200g MDMA, 1 laptop and 50,000 cash. I was like shit my id is being misused. He said Sir I can connect you with Mumbai Crime Branch and you can report the issue before something big happens (200g MDMA sun k meri pehle fat li). He connected me to a guy, he said he was from crime branch and asked me to explain, I gave him the details, he said do you know what MDMA is, what is the punishment, you are gone, you could land in jail for life. He said he is transferring the call to his senior, where I can register an FIR. The second guy joins the line, asks me to come to Mumbai, I said I can't, won't get leaves at such short notice, he said nahi its serious, this js international drug trafficking, you don't know the importance and severity of the case. I said don't you have any mechanism to take my complaint online, he said fine, please download skype and call me on this ID.
I called him on Skype, he said please give your statement, please be clear, specific, you can't change your statement once given, bla bla, i was shit scared by now. Then he takes my statement and asks for my Aadhaar copy for verification of identity. I the. Recive a copy of FIR on Skype itself. I am even more scared now. The guy switches on his video, I see a police station, with desktops here and there with people in police uniform on phone and Gandhi Ji ka portrait, Mumbai police ka logo, he then said Sir you are a potential suspect for money laundering, international drug trafficking and falsifying information. Meri fat li. I said what next then, he said we will very your bank account for any hawala transactions so please state last 4 digits of your account number and exact balance on date. I shared for all accounts. He reports this to someone on phone and he responds by saying this person has active account all over India in various states and multiple sim cards are also registered under his name. This guy comes to me saying, Sir the allegations against you are serious and so we will have to put you on surveillance untill we have verified your accounts. He said please keep your camera on at all times and don't speak to anyone, don't use any electronic device. I said okay, I come home with my camera on. I tell my wife dheere se, she said I have never ever sent anything to Taiwan and suggests me to ask for the IDs of people on other side, I ask for IDs, the guy says please talk to my senior, the senior starts yelling at me and threatening me, saying I am being polite and you have the audacity to ask for my ID. I was done by now, I rushed to the nearest police station, they spoke to the guys on phone, these guys are yelling at police too and disconnect the call. Police said, it was a scam please exercise caution. I go home and freeze all my bank accounts for any debit.
I think these people were either trying to hack into my phone as they had a continuous line and had sent me a pdf which may have had contained some virus using which they could have hacked my phone and swept the money or could have made a demand for ransom after troubling me after long.