SOURCE: Reddit - r/Nagpur
CITY: Nagpur
TITLE: Please take some time to read . I'm struggling 
AUTHOR: SureMarsupial730
DATE: 2024-12-16
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/nagpur/comments/1hf6hpv/please_take_some_time_to_read_im_struggling/
--- POST TEXT ---

I 26 M . Born in Nagpur studied and lived my whole life here . From KG to Bachelors, never went outside of this city to live or work. almost all of my close friends after college left the city and I'm here alone, My parents are in their late early 60s and have health issues,so I'm afraid to leave this city. I do have a elder sister who too works in Bangalore and quite successful. On the other hand I'm a Architect and there is not much money in it . Neither I have the contacts who can give me projects, I come from a poor background as well . I'm afraid to leave the city cuz I don't know how will I survive and how people will treat me for not earning much . I want to leave this city because of FOMO about life. Being brought up in the slum my mother was over protective and didn't let me play with the neighborhood kids so from the very beginning I find it difficult to gel with others . I have no school friends and the ones I made in college don't live here . Also being from a poor background, when I was in college I had this Girl who proposed me and I was in a relationship for the names sake, I had no money to take her on dates and things were so bad that once or twice I had to push my scooter from trimurti nagar to nearest petrol pump . That relationship went into dump because of how useless I was in it , I got angry at her fought and it went to the ground . It was the first time someone felt like home and it has been 7 years since then and there were no dates and sex either . She came and realized that I am a different kind of person and I have issues with reading social ques ,told me I'm dumb and slow mentally,I'm still stuck on her and haven't moved on even don't have contact with her. And I told her countless times to block me because I wanted to UNALIVE myself, and didn't wanted her to know or even didn't wanted her to get in trouble. I haven't dated anyone at all after that . Also I feel very sad because of being rejected by every girl on bumble and I don't even want to talk to any women now because they too will realize how stupid and broke I am , and I also hide my Caste as well.
I just go outside every evening for a coffee near VNIT and sit alone and avoid people if they talk to me . I'm quite Deluded now because of being alone for a long time and can't focus on anything for a long period of time . I just wait hopelessly that someone will just hold me tight ( obviously I'm a degenerate as well you can see, this piles up as well). I'm touch starved and have no one to discuss my life . 
I also left my job 8 months ago where I was an Associate because I was being exploited .
And genuinely don't know what to do Financially, in relationship and personally . I can't even help my family financially and my mother hides her disappointment and tries her best to cheer me . But I'm just too isolated and caught up in my ways and started smoking again too .
If anyone can give a piece of advice please help me ,I'll remember you guys .
Thanks .