SOURCE: Reddit - r/Mumbai
CITY: Mumbai
TITLE: Lappie World -Lamington Road Scam
AUTHOR: texthulk
DATE: 2019-07-14
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/mumbai/comments/cctt8m/lappie_world_lamington_road_scam/
--- POST TEXT ---

Alright i thought of bringing this to everyone's notice in this sub.. Lamington Road as everyone knows is a tech marketplace hub in mumbai, where one can get anything related to computers. So coming to point, There's a fancy looking shop named "Lappie World" , which has scammed limitless people . I've been scammed too, few years back i was looking for a laptop.. i didn't knew much about computers but by my research online , i shortlisted a Asus laptop which perfectly fit in my requirements, i got its price quotation from multiple shops on that lane, and surprisingly the difference in price quoted at lappie world was huge, so I decided to buy it ASAP , the laptop box arrived in shop after around 45mins (here's where the scam happens) Yeah i was waiting for 45 fricking minutes over there, so my box arrives at counter the shop owner checks box and there's a white label that says "1 way CPU , not for usage for than 40min" &amp; then the counter guy goes on explaining that its an inferior cpu for which i wouldn't be able to use over 40min &amp; it would overheat, &amp; suggested me to buy a dell laptop,and i went with his suggestion since i obviously needed a good laptop. And he successfully scammed me for inferior specs laptop for the price i paid him. Next day i inquired in other shops in this lane about the laptop i had , and the price they quoted me was 10k lower than what i paid lappie world. When i created a scene at lappie world, he told me that there's a mistake at the shop u asked ,go and ask him again.. so i went back to the other shop &amp; the guy told me ..that lappie world owner called me up phone &amp; said dont interfere in his business, the other shop owner requested me to go and accept the laptop since there's nothing that can be done &amp; i may harm his business relationship with other shops. You can go to google maps and look for reviews of lappie world, he has been playing this scam for many years it seems.. and nobody is able to put that gujju behind bars. The shop is just opposite to the police station , i guess he has purchased them too coz some reviews mention he challenges customers to lodge a complaint over there.
Also he has 3-4 shops with different names. Be super cautious &amp; spread the word in your friend circle about this scam.