SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: Cyber crime dept. SCAM or NOT?
AUTHOR: Few-Calligrapher8892
DATE: 2025-03-07
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1j5ca7o/cyber_crime_dept_scam_or_not/
--- POST TEXT ---

Posted the same in Faridabad, just wanted to know your views guys.
From past 2-3 days, I am receiving a call from someone who is saying that he is from crime branch, named Mohd. Shokeen(ASI) and there is some crime related to one of my numbers. After that i di dverified his details like his number, his name, his batch and Truecaller id. Everything seems legit. So, I thought this might be legit. So, I dig deep a little bit more and asked for some proof or report. And guess what, he provided a quite authentic report, with signatures and authentic stamps. 
But later he deleted it, may be after 5-10 mins. And later he is denying to provide it again and then he started abusing me and asked me to come to a police station near faridabad sec. 8. 
For information I live around sec. 37. So, my doubt why he is asking me to come down there, when my local police station is in sec 37. 
Today, he called me again and again started abusing and told me that he is not fraud and asked me that you can go to your nearest police station and talk to your SHO and they will provide the authenticity to me about him. But when I asked him to come down to my local police station, he denied to come there.
Now initially, I tried to get more info and asked him to settle it down in some way. But he completely denied like 4-5 times. He said multiple times that it just about a signature and he want nothing else. Even he is telling me to go down to my nearest station and call him from there and then he will talk to that person or official. And only then i will be able to trust him.
In short, at last he asked my occupation and my father's occupation. I told him that I am from a very low-key background. Then, he asked how much I'll be able to arrange and then he cut the call after that.

So, my 2 cents, I know it seems quite shady and more so ever a legit scam. But my only doubt here is, How on earth, his numbers(he called me from 2 different numbers), his details and everything seems legit to me. Even his both numbers are registered to same name.
What you guys think????