SOURCE: Reddit - r/Hyderabad
CITY: Hyderabad
TITLE: looking at my childhood friends dad, i secretly wished my dad also to be like him but he is too dumb to be a fraud though
AUTHOR: GiveMePineapplePizza
DATE: 2022-11-28
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/z6o1c5/looking_at_my_childhood_friends_dad_i_secretly/
--- POST TEXT ---

Personal experience, obviously taking risks leads us far but my comparison is between a fraud and my dad who doesn't know anything besides his job. Not a rant but just retrospection on how events unfolded.

Back to my childhood, 15 years ago, my dad is a smalltime clerk in govt. We used to stay in a colony that we can term as low income area not a slum though. People were all low earning employees or smalltime business owners. My childhood bestfriend and I used to go to same school and coming to my friend's dad, lets call him X, he was a person who never had a stable job or anything. Initially My dad and others used to have bikes except for my friend's dad and he used to come to bustop on his dad's cycle. Slowly Mr X began doing scams and they Slowly improved their lifestyle andthey nought a maruti omni, suddenly there was a car in my locality , we kids were excited as if it were an aeroplane. So, Mr X was doing scams like fake notes and began finance business lending converted money to others with high interest and he maintained a gang of rowdies(trust me its true, ofcorse he too looks rowdy) to beat people if they couldnt return money. I saw him beating shit out of my other friends dad in broad daylight among everyone in my colony. This was first time i saw that an adult beating others. Well fast forward, with every year Mr X life was improving and is clearly visible from outside, Slowly they were moving to bigger houses and my friend used to have great toys which were costly at that time. There were instances where he took properties of people if they couldn't pay back. Mr X used to always have a load of cash due to chits, fake notes etc and he used to do real estate a lot. He was once top builder in my tier 3 town. He began associating with politicians began as their chamcha and now has risen ranks and has strong political support as well. His kids, my friend is average student but his little brother is as dumb as they come tbh. However because of his dad, his quality of life was and is completely different. By intermediate, we mostly didn't talk because they moved on to better locality, they just stopped talking to all of us who were from old locality. During intermediate he went to best college with best tutors and he worked hard and got a good eamcet score and joined CBIT. I tried my level best and joined lower top 10 college ie mvsr college. While I was staying in hostels packed with 5 to 6 so as to reduce cost during my undergraduation, my friend was staying in villa in gated community in Hyderabad. I worked my ass off for placements and got 5 l package in product company, but my friend was busy studying gre and he went to USA . I always wanted to move abroad but couldn't due to our financial situation and I hate that I am jealous of my friend. My friends brother who is dumb af bought his way to management for MBBS and also MD course that costed them 4 crores, got to know figure amount from my other friend who's mom is close to them. Mr X s net worth is almost close to 1000crores now. My family's just the same, my father is close to retirement and we bought a new house on loan and now i wonder about how things turned out since childhood, i was the best student in my childhood but my friend who was average really has outdid me, i wonder if i got stale or something and i am an IT employee now. At times i wonder how many many generations will i have to earn comparing with my friends situation. 

Not that i encourage illegal ways or anything but just retrospection. I used to believe that hardwork and honesty is everything and anyone who goes in shortcut would get hit by karma but sometimes it doesn't. Takeaway i had was with one single persons effort either via good or bad ways, a path has been built for their entire family's next generations. My friend didn't resort to any bad ways, he got good college fair and square and got to abroad and he is right now earning 250k usd. I hate to admit ut but I am for some reason extremely jealous, I gave up my abroad because I couldn't afford besides meagre scholarship. 

If you wondered why i didn't say much about my dad, its simple, there was nothing any different, its just same. Things didn't change, he bought an alto car of his own on loan in 2018. I began my job in 2019

Life's strange. I will stop talking now.