SOURCE: Reddit - r/Chennai
CITY: Chennai
TITLE: Manifestation is real and I m literally a guru
AUTHOR: lookmomimanonymous
DATE: 2023-11-22
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/181auo6/manifestation_is_real_and_i_m_literally_a_guru/
--- POST TEXT ---

Here is a screenshot of a conversation that happened in a thread a month ago. 40k is a random number the other person shopped for and I only wished I could too. My balance then was rs.59 only. Peraasadha unakku to be able to shop that much with less than minimum balance nu sollalam. I also told myself the same. I m a broke, fresh out of college student and my parents told me you have clothes at home, next month vangikalam cuz now we are broke as well. For more context, I am starting a new job and I don't look like a corp girl yet, obviously and all my clothes are five years old. I shop long term btw and not too frivolous and that's why I need a new frivolous. But that didn't stop me from meticulously adding things to my cart and pretending that I could even afford them. I would visit my poor cart everyday and remind her that I would come back for her one day. Order place panra mari poi cancel paniduven. 

Anyways fast forward, this happened so quick so idk how to explain this in a way that doesn't seem like just plain luck or fake, but I suddenly started getting money. Not all the money was for me to spend. My friends and cousin out of the blue called me up and told me that their gpay is not working or their bank has some problem so they are redirecting money to my account. This happened thrice in three days. Twice in a day not even kidding I literally have screenshots. Ofc I didn't touch their money but I got gifts, coupons, black friday sale deivame, my parents sudden ah hiked the budget, my grandma offered stuff, I got like cash as gift extra va etc etc. Today I realised that I actually did do the 40k shopping that I wished chumma hypothetically over a month ago. It's not even my money. It's just money that fulfilled the purpose of what I subconsciously manifested for. Before someone thrashes me, it's not just clothes. It's a mix of various clothes both expensive and cheap, bags, shoes, essentials that will last me for years 

This is not the only time I have received what I had asked for from the universe. It happens with work, love life ellamey and I m ever so grateful. Rn I m manifesting one million dollars for my boyfriend so that he can quit his job and dote on me but you get the idea. Delulu is the solulu, literally. Ask and you shall receive. Believe and you will see it.