SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: Scam centre by advocates!
AUTHOR: Valuable_Science9021
DATE: 2024-10-26
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1gcop09/scam_centre_by_advocates/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hi all, Advocate here.
Today, I had an interesting day at Court and thought of sharing, which is of immense value to laymen.

I represented the wife in mutual divorce, and during course of second motion proceedings, husband's previous counsel intervened via VC, complaining to the Hon’ble Judge that the present matter should not be allowed because husband did not pay part-fee to the said previous counsel.

On arguments, the Hon'ble Judge was convinced to allow second motion regardless. HOWEVER, this is where the husband tells me what ordeal he had faced past month.

Let's call previous counsel 'D', husband as 'H', and my co-counsel as 'C'. Husband's new counsel as 'A'.

As we wait for our turn to get statement recorded, H tells me that D extorted from him USING C's name, purporting that C has communicated to D that no second motion will be filed if C is not paid XXXXXX amount. H tells me that such stance was also done before first motion as well. H further tells me that D also filed a criminal complaint against H claimimg that H took money from D. Further, H told that D said to H that C said to D that wife will not take her cruelty-complaint back until 50% of the settlement amount as agreed in Memorandum of Settlement is paid to C. 

C and I have been associated for years and I had full faith that none of this was true. However, as her senior, she still showed her bank statement to me voluntarily. And obviously H was subjected to a scam and cheating racket.

I inquired from H, that H and I have met 4-5 times, why did he not communicate this apprehension that C was demanding such and such, or that, D was starting so on part of C. H answered that I wanted my divorce to get settled first, because D would do anything to stop his divorce. I could gather trust from this, because I expressly received call from this D that I should not get wife's cruetly-complaint withdrawn from police station until D gets her fees, WHICH SHE INITIALLY MENTIONED THAT SHE WAS DOING IT PRO-BONO/FREE.

I inquired from H's freshly engaged counsel A about this, to which he submitted that he was aware of major part of it, but on H's request to get second motion done first, he also did not reach out to my office.

Overall, H lost INR 1.5L in this scam and was being harassed to pay further INR.1.5L, while he must have paid something to new counsel too.

I was so shocked to hear all this. Offence of cheating and extortion are certainly made out. Breach of trust, may be. Illegally embezzling funds as well. Defamation from view point of my associate. Professional misconduct proceedings before bar council too. How I wish I was counsel for H too, I would have made sure this D was taught a lesson.