SOURCE: Reddit - r/Mumbai
CITY: Mumbai
TITLE: Is digital India really heading in the direction we intended to??
AUTHOR: assert92
DATE: 2023-05-05
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/mumbai/comments/138k8v6/is_digital_india_really_heading_in_the_direction/
--- POST TEXT ---

Ok,I had to travel from dadar to Thane in the afternoon and the locals were not running on schedule (as usual)
I had to board an express train Mumbai Nagpur vidharbha express.

I try to keep my screen time as low as possible.

So instead of burying my head in the phone I rather thought of listening to the interesting conversations happening around me in their typical Nagpur side accent..it was fun to listen to...

So they were 4-5 young guys and they were talking something finance related it the beginning.

One of the guy was like...you have no idea how much tax I paid to the government..this much tds and something on that grounds...
I was thinking...if this guy is boasting so much about tds he paid to the government..
He must be earning really well at such a young age.

Others were also showing something in their screen look at mine too n stuff.

Soon they started talking about some random guy from their village and how he installed the first air conditioner in their village, how he got his wife a new washing machine soon he's gonna purchase a car...

That pulled my attention even more in that conversation..like maybe I could get some business ideas from them (LOL)

However soon the truth bomb dropped, they started talking about rummy circle.
3 Patti and some random online games which we see front page ads daily now.

One of them was boasting he doesn't go to office anymore he just earns enough from this..and others were listening to him like he's some sort of influencer or something...

My point being...this fkall fraud apps have percolated so much in people's mind due to excessive marketing even by A list actors and cricketers.
If you go on YouTube and type online gaming fraud/loss you'll get numerous stories of how village guys got so addicted to this so called online gaming that they had to sell of their road touch land, their family home etc..
.

So is digital India really heading in the direction we intended to??