SOURCE: Reddit - r/Ahmedabad
CITY: Ahmedabad
TITLE: ATTENTION! SCAMMERS AT RTO, AHMEDABAD
AUTHOR: faps_in_greyhound
DATE: 2023-04-10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/ahmedabad/comments/12hib8m/attention_scammers_at_rto_ahmedabad/
--- POST TEXT ---

Alright. I shouldn't have written in all CAPS. But, it was necessary. I got scammed and I don't want you do fall into the same trap as well.

I want to draw your attention to a long-running scam just outside of RTO, Ahmedabad. When you go for your DL(4-wheelers), they conduct a test, which is already pretty expensive (Rs. 600/trial?). Plus, the test at Ahmedabad RTO is notoriously hard (some 51% fail even after driving for many years). I have been driving car for almost 10 years (mostly in USA) but I still failed the test twice.

So, what some scammers have figured out is that it is a good opportunity to make money out of gullible people. As soon as you fail the test and come out of RTO, there'll be a group of people who will stop you, and ask if you failed the test. They will say that they have contacts inside RTO and will make your failed attempt a pass. They will get in a car with you, ask you to drive close to a bridge and say "Look, we can do it. But, it's entire department that is corrupt and we have to pay everyone in there to make this happen. It'll cost you some Rs. 8000". To which you'll negotiate to 3000-4000Rs. They will take only CASH. Out of 3 people accompanying you, 2 will leave your car, and one will stay with you. They say that "You'll get an OTP from RTO in 5-10 mins".

While you wait in a car with the one of the guy left behind, you actually do get an OTP from DOT-GUJ and the guy will ask you on phone to give OTP. You give him an OTP. Then, they will say, "You see? Now it's done. Download the 'Digilocker' app, and you'll see the license within 24 hours". And the third guy will leave. 

Turns out that they have an inside contact who actually sends a message from RTO. It's not relevant to test in anyway, it's just a random text. They will take your money and go away.

I just wanted to make awareness about it since it happened with me, and I don't want any of you guys to go through it. I see a most of you on this sub are 15-24, ripe for a 4-Wheeler License. Make sure to make your friends aware about it.

Back in days, when there was no digital world, like 30-40 years ago, from our dad's time, there used to be payoffs for getting a license inside RTO. That shit does not happen anymore. Do not do it. There are cameras everywhere inside RTO Test Track and they will make a video recording of your entire test. 

So, how do you pass the test?

In my opinion, getting good hands on experience, AND, I can't stress this enough, GO TO A TEST-TRACK. There are PRIVATE test-tracks in Ahmedabad, which are exact copy of RTO test-track. They'll take Rs. 500/hour for you to practice on it. But it's totally worth it. The guy there will teach you exact Tips and Tricks on how to pass the exam. I have been driving for many years, and still failed twice. Then I went to this test-track near Vaishnodevi, and learned the tricks from the guy there, and I passed it. So, do yourself a favor and try them out. 

Let me know if you guys have any questions.