SOURCE: Reddit - r/Mumbai
CITY: Mumbai
TITLE: follow up of the BPCL petrol scam that I faced on the 9th January 2023.
AUTHOR: rrapache
DATE: 2023-01-12
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/mumbai/comments/109cafz/follow_up_of_the_bpcl_petrol_scam_that_i_faced_on/
--- POST TEXT ---

Namaskaar Mumbaikars ,

Thanks to a fellow redditor , who first told me to tweet my grievances regarding the BPCL petrol scam to their official Twitter page. I did tweet to BPCL and to my surprise I did get a reply from them in an hour. The BPCL official page requested for my mobile number and details of the petrol pump where I faced the issues. I immediately sent the requested details to them.

The next moment I know , In approx 3hours the Owner of that petrol pump called me up saying " Sir tumhala kahi issues face kelay baddal sorry , tumhi mala sanga kay problem jhala hota exactly ? " 

I explained him the entire scene of what happened and he too agreed that it was the guys mistake ( who was refueling my tank ) I also told him that it was his duty to look into this matter even before I tweeted to the BPCL Twitter account ( because I had already given a complaint to them in writing on their complaint book ) I told him - " mi social media var post kela mahnun tumcha call aala mala , mi post nasta kela tar tumhala kay farak paddla asta? " and he went quiet for a second or two. I got my answer there and then he replied " please sir social media var naka complaint karu mi aahe iithe tumchya sathi solve karein tumcha problem " 

well all this happened we talked for a good 11ish minutes and the owner assured me that I wouldnt face the same fate again when I visit them. he also assured me that he would take action against that guy who did what he did. 

while hanging up the call he said that this BPCL petrol pump was the only one which you can see maximum staff members Maharashtrians and we wont commit fraud to another marathi manus ; to which I said - Marathi manus ach marathi maansa cha paay khali kechto he tumhi iitech pahila anhi vishay marathi aslya cha nahi pan scam anhi fraud nahi karaycha asa aahe ; and then hung up the call. 

&amp;#x200B;

thankyou all who engaged with my previous post , I also learnt some tips during this whole conversation in the comments section on refueling tanks. 

Stay Safe Mumbaikars and most importantly stay attentive :D :D