SOURCE: Reddit - r/Hyderabad
CITY: Hyderabad
TITLE: Today a scammer called my mom and told that I was involved in a rape case
AUTHOR: PrisonMikehatesToby
DATE: 2024-07-20
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1e7st5b/today_a_scammer_called_my_mom_and_told_that_i_was/
--- POST TEXT ---

Sorry if this isn’t of any relevance to the sub but I wanted to share this to spread awareness of a scam that I witnessed right in front of me.

My mom came to me with her phone showing a youtube reel to me and asking to translate it for her as it was in English. I took her phone and shortly after I saw a call notification on WhatsApp from a Pakistani number(+92 dialling code). I picked the call and said Hello, the guy wasn’t answering so my mom took over. 

As my mom took over she started asking who he was. He responded saying that he’s calling from the police station, I figured out that this was a scam and asked my mom to play along. He then started saying my name, asking if I am her son, she said yes. He then says my dad’s name and asks my mom if that is my dad’s name and my mom says yes. He then starts to ask about my whereabouts to my mom, I ask her to say that I’m in Mumbai on a trip(we stay in Hyderabad). He then says “Do you know that he has raped 3 girls in Mumbai? He’s in police station right now”. My mom panicked, got really angry and cut the call saying to shut up and cut the call. She was so frightened about such a inhumane claim that the guy was making on me. 

What scared me the most is that guy literally knew my mom’s phone number, my dad’s name and started to accuse me. Had I not been home and away my parents would have fell to this scam out of panic as my parents aren’t aware of these kind of scams and would have panicked and even paid the scammer money. I wanted to play along and cross question that guy even more but couldn’t do that unfortunately.

My request to everyone is to never ever share anything personal (Aadhar, PAN or any document) to anyone on the internet, be very careful of what links we click on from a WhatsApp text and especially educate our parents as they would become the easiest targets due to the lack of their tech knowledge and in case something like this happens, cross question the guy so much and never believe anything from a stranger. Privacy of a common man is literally a joke in this country