SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kolkata
CITY: Kolkata
TITLE: Comprehensive guide to avoid dating scam
AUTHOR: GaryVantage
DATE: 2025-04-23
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/kolkata/comments/1k5y2z8/comprehensive_guide_to_avoid_dating_scam/
--- POST TEXT ---

I am seeing a lot of posts on reddit about tinder scams in India and especially in Kolkata. Let's create some awareness and save some people. 

To those who don't know, allow me to explain. A cute girl matches with you on tinder/bumble/hinge or any dating app. Sometimes she is clearly out of your league. You talk a little and she wants to meet. She calls you to a shady cafe where she has a deal with the owner. She will order lots of food, alcohol and hookah. The bill will be more than 10k, 20k or even 50k if you look rich. Then she goes to the bathroom and never comes back. You are stuck with a big bill and no action on a hopeful evening.

I have searched this sub and found out the following places where the scam has happened. Try to avoid these at any cost. 

The Golden Tree, Golpark
Galaxy the sky lounge
RIDERs cafe
Dum maro Dum, Dhakuriya
Few Cafes around Rajarhat
Fab Hotels
Atmosphere cafe
The vibe
More shapoorji side cafes

Mind you, there can be more places.

So what should you do to avoid getting scammed? Here are some steps you should follow:-

1) Go to a reputed cafe, somewhere you previously went and had a good experience. Avoid going to a new place if you have not heard of it. 

2) If you want to take hookah simply go to a chai break. It is a high probability that there is a chai break near your house and it has really good hookah and food. You cannot go wrong here.

3) If she insists on a new place, just search for it online like "riders cafe scam." If you do not find anything funny then probably it's a good cafe and you are safe.

I understand you might be new to this so you don't know much places to go to on your first date. I am your brother and will help you out! I am listing down some places you can go for the first date. Open dineout and check the menu to see if it matches your budget and go accordingly.

Places with hookah:- 
Chai break 
Jugnu 
Mintella 
Eddys 
Cafe proof
Fenicia
Que pasa
Carpediem
Park Street social

Places without hookah and just a sweet date spot:- 
Marbella's
Piccadilly square 
Mall food courts
Pa pa ya
Starbucks CCD
Any Domino's, McDonald's or pizza hut type of place

I am not familiar with alcohol places much but cc1 and bhawanipur chai break has alcohol. Also, any pub in the celica building of park Street will be fine. Otherwise some alcohol hidden in a sprite bottle while walking in a park is also enjoyable if the company is right!

Be a man and pay for the first date. Splitting the bill is not a very charming idea in my opinion. I have never split the bill on any of my first date ever. So go to a place which fits your pocket and do not go after show off.

Anyone who knows any more places or any other scams they heard about, please put it in the comments. 

Hopefully this will help some of you. If you have questions you may ask me in the comments or DM me. 

TL DR: if you are going on a first date then read this if you don't want to get scammed.