SOURCE: Reddit - r/Pune
CITY: Pune
TITLE: Urgent Advice Needed - Fell Victim to Job Scam, Worried About Potential Legal Consequences
AUTHOR: sharingan_kakashi_7
DATE: 2024-01-28
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/pune/comments/1acxswr/urgent_advice_needed_fell_victim_to_job_scam/
--- POST TEXT ---

My family member saw ad on facebook while scrolling that Natraj company is offering some job. To get this job firstly you have to send your adhaar card so they can prepare your ID card of the company. Then you have send some money in advance. The delivery boy will deliver 15000 cash in advance and goods on which you have to work on to get the next payment They collected money like this - 1. Firstly they asked 2550 rupees for gps or delivering on the location My family member couldn't send 2500 directly so they sent it in 2 parts 1500 + 1020 After sending this money, one guy from company contacted and said that they made a mistake and have to send the money again 2. Second time, the family member sent 1900+650 again they said due to some gst cut they didn't receive the full money and there is some problem. My family member said that they don't have the money. So the so called company man and the delivery man threatned to go to police station to lodge a complaint saying that they'll show the power of limited company and that our lives will ruined 3. Fearing this, family member sent 5260. After this company guy called and said direct payment is not allowed like this. You have send it in 2 installements and as such. So they demanded money again saying they'll refund all in cash. And if money is not paid they'll lodge a police complaint against us Now I am scared after this, what if they go to police and make some fake case against the family member, since they have the adhaar card. We lost the money, it's fine but we don;t want any case against us to ruin our family lives. What do I do now? I am scared of all this. I should have sensed this is all a scam, but i got to know this later on. Scammed of almost 10k rupees. 10k is big deal for my family, but I am not worried about that. I am worried about the police case and all What do i do now? 

Please don't be rude, I know it's our mistake of falling for this scam. I just need proper advice.