SOURCE: Reddit - r/Hyderabad
CITY: Hyderabad
TITLE: Need career guidance for a 30 yr old man who's struggling to earn a living.
AUTHOR: sanjeev_00
DATE: 2023-08-04
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/15i6jvr/need_career_guidance_for_a_30_yr_old_man_whos/
--- POST TEXT ---

This post is about asking a career guidance/help. Thought of asking my question in simple words, but it ended up so lengthy, seeking clarifications based on my situations.

Did a few small jobs. Been into Digital Marketing in the past, where organic marketing &amp; analytics are my core skills.
Had a great interest towards web development since the start. But due to non IT degree and no proper guidance haven't got started with it. Learnt a little html &amp; css. In the past, as I've worked on a few wordpress sites and as a digital marketer, I have an understanding of websites, the basic sense of a website functionality, architecture and the seo things. Want to get started with frontend dev job immediately in the next 2-3 months due to my financial condition now, so that slowly I can learn backend while working as a frontend dev as a full time job.

Main problem is, I have had issues &amp; fears for not officially working at offices so far. My first job started with field sales. With the start of covid lost it and I took small remote jobs irrespective of the wages I've received during the no certainty period of covid. Officially I don't have any offer or relieving letters or payslips from any previous employers, as I worked like an outsource guy and freelancer with all of them.

Now I want to make it into web development. Due to my financial condition and family problems struggling to focus on my learning. Now I came away from home to Hyderabad and started self learning. I was a guy like, I can dedicate the whole time(except sleeping hours) on learning anything if I have to do it. So the next 2 months I'm focusing on complete practical learning with Javascript involved.

I'm lacking a clarity of how the jobs will be for me now. I'll always be in a dilemma that, without knowing everything in atleast frontend web dev how does an individual usually work on a project assigned to them? Simple saying, I don't know how tasks are alloted at work places and how can we get that done with only an idea in only a few concepts?

As a 30yr one, Should I apply jobs as a fresher or I have to fake the gap with any docs, saying that I've worked in digital marketing and recently switched to web dev.? 
I'm even ready to work even with a basic level salary, just to get started my new phase of career, despite having paid well in the past.

I'm good at something in my previous works, but for this I'm still a beginner. So need your comments, for my awareness on this job market.

I really thank you, if you read it until the end.