SOURCE: Reddit - r/Allahabad
CITY: Allahabad
TITLE: Tips and tricks for safe mela visit ( local knowledge)
AUTHOR: gentlemans-game
DATE: 2025-01-08
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Allahabad/comments/1hwpmbu/tips_and_tricks_for_safe_mela_visit_local/
--- POST TEXT ---

It's mela time and there is content overload already over internet.

The purpose of this post is to give simple , practical, honest information regarding do's and don't for anyone looking to visit prayagraj for during mela time.

1. This would be maha Kumbh, so even if you have visited prayag during normal magh mela in past don't expect same rules for traffic monitoring, restrictions of vehicles, costs for accommodation, food etc. Rules would be stricter, traffic would get diverted for far off and everything would be pricier.

2. Book your accomodation well in advance through recognised portal only , don't pay to any person based on random insta story, they may or may not be part of scam.

3. Be prepared to walk a lot during mela so travel light. Carry important stuff like medicines, toiletries, warm clothes etc. Essentials you can buy in the city.

4. Try to travel in groups so that you need not depend on strangers to guard your valuable like mobile, purse , clothes while you are taking dip in Ganga. Ex : if you are 4 people , go for snan in 2 groups.

5. Don't waste money on pricey hotel food, if you have booked free breakfast then it's ok. Else in mela area enough bhandara and stalls would be available, on free or paid basis. Accept bhandara food from trusted, public places only not from random strangers.

6. On shahi snan days, expect crowd. So focus on having snan of you planned for and don't mix it with sight seeing in city as traffic would be high. Instead spend time in pandals or at your hotel, or nearby parks.

7. Avoid looking for chamatkari babas and their offerings, 90% of them are fake. Don't consume alcohol or drugs in any form, even in the name of prashad.

8. Always take help from police , lost and found department of you lost your way. Dont ask for routes from rickshaw pullers they make take you for a ride.

9. Before coming, get yourself familar with areas you are planning to visit via Google map. Try public transport as much as you can.

10. Don't roam around in odd hours and in secluded areas, since it's winter the city areas closes sooner than normal.

11. Don't capture people in your reels and photos without their consent. Avoid capturing photo or video near ghats where people are taking bath or changing.

12. Book your tickets well in advance for both to and from journey.

13. If sangam gets crowded look for other ghats nearby for snan. Govt has developed more ghats this time.

14. Be kind and courteous to everyone. Avoid carrying or showing too much cash in public. Dress responsibly.

15. Avoid going to places where you find too much crowd, you can visit some other time or other day.

16. Beware of fake guides, pickpockets , scamsters.
Don't purchase unnecessary items or desi nuskhas ,ost of them are not effective.

17. Socialize in limits , no need to share everything about you , to a random stranger.

18. Make sure you drink water from reliable sources , clean water. Keep yourself hydrated. Take enough breaks during long walks.

19. Don't spread trash everywhere, help the authorities to keep mela area and city clean.

20. Carry ganga jal back with you, it's the best souvenir available free of cost.

Wish you a pleasant stay and happy memories.

Please add if I missed anything.

- Fellow Allahabadi