SOURCE: Reddit - r/Hyderabad
CITY: Hyderabad
TITLE: I'm the MOST WANTED man in India (AMA)
AUTHOR: Nervous_Ad_7984
DATE: 2024-11-28
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1h1tqe6/im_the_most_wanted_man_in_india_ama/
--- POST TEXT ---

Join me on my journey as I navigate through the intricate webs of deception and darkness, as I assume my newfound role of criminal underworld mastermind orchestrating India's biggest human trafficking, drug peddling and weapon smuggling dark web business.

The story of my life starts at 3pm today, I was on my merry way driving to the mall to pick my wife up, dreaming about going home and having some garam garam dal chawal and tala hua gosht when suddenly, I get a call from a mysterious number - 7018190151. The mere sight of this filled me with an uneasiness I am unable to explain. How would I know, that it was my 6th sense telling me that my life was going to change, FOREVER.

I answered "Hello". A man replied "THIS IS THE CID CYBER CRIME DEPARTMENT" 

OMFG, I almost spat my sting(best energy drink ever) thinking that DAYA, my childhood hero has called me. He quickly told me that he found my mobile number on the dark web and how I'm now implicated in the serious crime of "human trafficking" along with "drugs" and "WEAPONS". I was also informed that I am now at the top of India's most wanted list. I couldn't believe it, me, a simple man thinking about my dal chawal have suddenly become an international man of mystery, an underworld don, a merchant of DEATH. 

I HAD TO THINK QUICKLY, THEY FINALLY FOUND ME, how could I use my own personal mobile number to do all these criminal activities on the DARK WEB and how did I use my own name as my user id. How could I have been so stupid. My knowledge of all the Die Hard movies has taught me nothing. To feign ignorance, I started speaking in Telugu because I was wanted to hide my identity and confuse the CID. 

To my surprise, the officer started speaking in TELUGU TOO. I almost spat out my zafrani chai (pista house best chai) at this development. The police was one step ahead of me. I quickly accepted my mistake, realising that the game was over, that my days of crime are up, and also because I reached the mall and I can't make my wife wait (Even criminals have rules).

The officer wanted to transfer my call to his senior, but I quickly escaped by saying "Anna please Anna vaddu Anna" and he cut the call telling me he'll call me later with a case registered against my name.

I am now planning my escape to another country. Any ideas on how I can explain this to my wife will be welcome. 

/s

PS - Scammers are now local, beware.