SOURCE: Reddit - r/Hyderabad
CITY: Hyderabad
TITLE: A cry for help. Give me Hope, Advice &amp; show me a way. Or this might be the end.
AUTHOR: vipingrenade
DATE: 2025-02-03
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1igk0bd/a_cry_for_help_give_me_hope_advice_show_me_a_way/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hello everyone. I've seen many kind people on this sub, I hope you guys can help me bcz I have no one to help me irl.

I don't even know where to start. My whole life I have isolated myself not knowing the consequences it would bring. 

I have never seen someone mess up their life this bad. I'm not exaggerating even a bit. 

In school, I did good academically and also been called disciplined &amp; well behaved child. I was the calm kid who would follow instructions i've been given. I could not fit in with the rest. I've been bullied a lot. So I distanced myself even more. I was the one who'd go home straight after school/college.

At each phase of life I would be friends with only 1 or 2 people thinking they would be with me forever and i don't need anyone else. While for them i was just another person. I'd be left alone after each stage. Like my school friends ended ties with me in clg. &amp; My clg friends ended ties after graduation. I didn't realise networking is the only thing which helps you live life. 

(You can think I'm like the socially anxious introvert character 'Pandu' from happydays Movie)

My parents did try their best to push me to do things, but i would get panic attacks. So my upbringing was very sheltered which is super rare in a lower middle class family that too in a rural area. I was always at home which is very bad for a guy. Many thought i had problems and thought i was Girly'ish as i wouldn't go out of house.

So in this solitude, my phone was my best &amp; the only friend. I exposed myself to wide variety of content, used to read articles related to various topics. I am not an expert at any of these but i was aware of many things. Topics which are global trends. A complete opposite of the people i live around. 

So bcz of all of this i had no idea what real life was. Life was just moving on it's own. By this time u may have an idea of my personality. I was so scared of talking to people that i never left my rural village and had to study whatever that was available here. i.e a basic life sciences degree. I didn't even know what jee/neet was until i already completed 12th. So u can imagine how careless i was about academic life. 

That was the first time i started to sense my surroundings. Everyone was moving to cities. Esp Hyderabad. I didn't know what i wanted to do. I thought i would do BCA cuz i had already seen some web dev vids on utube. But course was not available where i live. And i was shit scared to leave house. 

At every major step i gave into pressure and chose the worst option (safe/comfortable option) 

Now all my school frnds have secured good mnc jobs. Some doing businesses. 

And they're all younger than me. 

You must be thinking i'm a teenager or in my early 20's at most. But I'm a pathetic 26 yr old with no life experience. 

Never had a job. Never did anything on my own. My family had to do all things for me (like getting me things/ finding clg for me , admitting me in clg, taking me to exam centers etc). They're the ones who know me inside out and the things i know/read/learn. So they thought i was kinda gifted and i will find something better as the time goes by. 

But no such things happened, i know they are disappointed. they still don't force to me to something great like many others post here (like a well paying jobs/iit/neet/CA/etc). there's no such talks of these things in rural areas, so they are not even aware of the education scene and how well paying jobs exist today. 

They used to think they are all big things which only rich people do like mba etc when they see people in office suits. I grew up thinking the same that i can't do something like that. While my frnds actually become those people.

So there's a lot of jealousy and Self hate in me. I can't even look at my face in mirror. I know there's people who failed at many things but they failed after trying, where as in my case i didn't even try. I've no experience to learn from failures whatsoever. Those people can do others things after failure but i don't see a path for me. 

Its my 3rd time posting my life in reddit. The first post i made when i completed 12th. A second post after final year of degree. &amp; Now 3rd time after 2yrs of graduation. Everytime for asking advice but i made no progress.

Until 2nd post I was under 25 and thought atleast someday things might change. But after hitting 26. I lost my will. Cuz i don't even see a way to get out of this situation. 

I had some sudden burst of random motivation and studied some stuff but had to stop when my mind tells me what's the point? You don't even have guts to go to a city to find a job. 

What demotivated me even more is that my lack of a better degree. And most common way to get a job is through on campus placements. (No one in my college even knows that's even a thing,even the staff) the one's who study here are the one's who do it for name sake, no intention of employment.

My parents now want me to do any work in our village where i would get max 10-12k salary for 10hrs, 6-7 days a week. I see no point in living now, knowing there's no way my life would be better or that i would experience even 1% of things i know.

I wish i had not known the things I've seen or read. Ignorance is bliss indeed.

The amount of life stories I've read on reddit (i know most can be fake, I'm on internet for a decade so i know how how platforms are) and on YouTube or other media make me feel like a tiny ant in this huge universe. (I shouldn't have compared ant. they're still 100times better than me)

Writing this post after i had a severe panic attack with great magnitude i thought i would never experience. Im worried how bad it would get next. And no one knows what im going through. 

You might be thinking I'm considering ending my life. Honestly if i could do that it would be the best solution. but even for that I'm scared. Idk maybe if the pressure builds too much and if it overpowers the fear then i might do it. Not sure if it'll happen or when it'll happen.

Scrolling up, i see that I've written so much but its still too little to explain how bad things are in my life. Idk if anyone is even going to read it all. 

I can't even look people in the eyes, even one's who are much younger than me. I goto the same barber everytime nd get the same haircut for 26 yrs cuz I don't have to explain him. Can't go shopping alone cuz i'd get ripped off. Basically living like a pet. Others taking care of me.

\-- The Important Part --

I know its too late (don't lie saying it's not) but i want to change things if possible. I want someone to guide me on my next steps. What immediate action should i take? How to plan things? I don't want to stay where i live i want to go to a city (Hyderabad) can't travel elsewhere bcz of severe travel sickness. But also don't have anyone there to help.

How do i find a job? For now i want to find any basic office job (bpo,process/malls etc) but would like to get a better one like software tester/web developer or any other with decent pay in future. It can take time, I'm in no rush. I just want a Hope, a Start.

I searched a lot but everywhere the jobs related to IT/management/finance/ on all portals which im not ready for at the moment. And it will take time polishing my forgotten/brush-up skills too.

I have seen the other set of classmates who were not good at academics find random jobs in stores/malls/airports etc how does one find jobs like this. These are not advertised and are known from person to person. But i have no contacts. 

I think the best option is joining some course as i'd get some helping hand and can also finally socialize and learn how to function as a human. But especially since covid everyone is into courses and new ones are coming up with fancy names courses to attract students. I don't even know which course would be better to get a job. A few suggested about medical coding and software/it courses.

I can't even afford the fees. (If anyone thinking about scamming me by selling courses/registration fees for interviews, pls don't bother. I've seen/aware of many scams, i won't be paying even a single rupee)

Also if anyone got job from completing a course/training institute. Or know anyone who got job. Then pls give me info about the course and institute. And tell me which institute/course to avoid too. I can't afford wasting fee.

As I don't have anyone to talk to i often go on anonymous chat sites or forums.

My irl life is a complete 180° from my online persona. People think I'm from some developed city in India from a well off family. Talked to a lot of people from different countries but still found some topic relatable to talk about. Which most would not expect from a person who lives where i live &amp; the circumstances im in.

So all this makes me feel like, all my life has been a series of mistakes. I would have been living a completely different &amp; better life if i had avoided at least a few of those

Give me advice on how to be careful and trust if anyone approaches me after reading my post. Bcz the world is cruel there's high chance some might reach out with bad intentions. But i also don't want to push away the one's trying to help.

Sorry I wanted to write with good flow but it's all over the place. Also tell me where else i can post this so i can get a little help. (I don't need money, i need advice/job)