SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kolkata
CITY: Kolkata
TITLE: Dating - Cafe Scams
AUTHOR: myriaddebugger
DATE: 2024-12-16
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/kolkata/comments/1hfnhpe/dating_cafe_scams/
--- POST TEXT ---

I had heard of the dating scam surrounding some shady cafes in places like Delhi/Mumbai/Bangalore) Hyderabad.

Today, I experienced it first hand. A girl named Samira (IKYK, the kaum), matched with me on Boo a few days ago and started talking casually. She mentioned she studies at Maulana Abdul College in 2nd year. Then, asked to meet today stating she stays near Park Street and was free to meet up at Forum Mall. 

I went there and met up with her, she talked and conversed like a good friend and kept walking along the pavement from Forum Mall towards Bhowanipore Education Society. While chatting I noticed we reached a certain pub type of an establishment in a by-lane along the main road towards Bhowanipore Education Society from Forum Mall.

She mentioned she has never been there and would like to try it out. Something felt off from the very beginning and I seemed to feel a tingly sensation in my guts as soon as I saw the lift to go up to it. The place was named "The Vibe". [Although, the amount was deducted to an account named 'MUSKAANS'].

She accompanied me in, ordered hookahs (the most expensive ones on the menu @1899) twice, a plate of roasted chicken, a plate of prawns, a plate of chicken starters, kept refilling her mocktails, got 2 packs of cigarettes (classic) each billed at ₹500, a regular lighter billed for ₹100. I told her I wasn't hungyry and didn't want to order but she kept ordering the waiter/manager seemed to be in on it, he kept asking her and only listening to her. 

Somehow, I felt I was being duped into the dating scam cafe spending I had read about on Delhi/Gurgaon/Mumbai subs; and managed to get her to stop and the bill came to ~₹17000. The manager/waiter kept insisting me to pay with QR code D.B.T. but I said I'll pay by Card only and used my CC to pay it off just to get off that place quickly.

She got all the food packed and took it with her without even asking me although I was the one paying for it.
I asked her full name, said it was Sheikh Samira. As per her, she stays with her parents, has 2 brothers, one being her twin. I came back home to screenshot our conversation on the Boo app where we matched earlier but she had removed the match and conversation by then. 
Apparently, from what I read on other sources this is a common scam on dating apps (I wasn't aware of, being new to the online dating scene). 

On top of that, the CC company (IndusInd) doesn't have a straightforward way to dispute the transaction without blocking the card.

Guys, stay safe! Date safe, the dating scene in India is not the same as other countries. Women are out to get you. 

Long rant, but had to caution you.