SOURCE: Reddit - r/Hyderabad
CITY: Hyderabad
TITLE: Hyderabad's Kerala story..? 
AUTHOR: Tall_Government7347
DATE: 2024-03-20
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1bjc2o6/hyderabads_kerala_story/
--- POST TEXT ---

Initially when the movie Kerala story was released I did not watch it nor was I believing it. I thought was just a fake propaganda movie to create hate in communities.. 

But when I had a discussion with one of my close friend who belongs to Ja*n community here in hyderabad.. It was really shocking to know what has been going around.. 

My friend showed me a chat group where their community people share latest news of their known girls eloping with inter-faith men instances.. There were almost 3 news every week where young girls ran away from houses marrying muslim men. (They share marriage certificate and aadhar card of name change in the group.) 

Initially I thought that it's a normal love marriage where they eloped and married as it's not necessary that it's only for religion conversion! 

But then she told me her own 1st cousins situation where her cousin married inter faith and eloped from family. Her family diaowed her and never contacted her as she made her choice.
But after 2 years when someone from their relatives went to Bangkok they found her cousin at a strip club. When they identified and spoke to her she revealed that basically after marriage she was sold to a pimp afterwhich she continued her profession as a stripper as she has no where to go. 

It was really surprising for me to hear or even believe. When I told why won't their parents report or get her back? She told that her family diaowed her long back and dont give a shit about her anymore for what she has done!

She stated most of the girls who elope and marry change their numbers and even file a case on their parents stating they are a threat to their life cutting of all the ties. So the families disown them and never contact or even try to know how they are doing! So going back is never a choice for those girls. 

There was a case of one more girl who was house arrested in Dubai and then her husband married 2 more girls. She could not escape the marriage and accepted her fate. 

There are very few after match cases which come out as most of the girls accept their fate as they don't have support from their families too. 

Most of the families from where girls elope in case of love jihad dont report their daughters as they disown them or are scared of goons or getting into a big mess. They just leave their daughters to their fate which they chose is what I learnt that day. 

I would like you all to know that many families are Orthodox. Her family itself restricts her freedom a lot. Generally according to her woman don't have freedom of choice in their family is what she told me, and she herself always wanted to run away from her family seeing the biasnes towards the male child.

So basically the men target such girls who are pissed with their own familes and wanna run away.. They are given false hope about freedom and rights of her choice.. Where they fall for. And once married to a promising future of freedom they realises they bartered a mere nuisance for the devil's own troubles.

The cases were more that 10,000s in her chat list. Even if we consider 5℅ of such cases were for real the number is still huge. It was that day when I went back and saw Kerala story for the first time. 

To all the muslims reading this I am not targeting the religion here but we need to understand and acknowledge the bad happening around. Every religion has its problems and only when they understand it can be solved. Atleast acknowledge this and dont be ignorant about something wrong happening in name of your religion. "Letting the insiders handle the helm ensures a smoother sail towards resolution." You guys addressing the issue is more essential here.