SOURCE: Reddit - r/Chennai
CITY: Chennai
TITLE: Rant: Revoked offer, Sleepless nights. Need some inspirational life stories unga side la irunthu.
AUTHOR: hypocritebyday
DATE: 2023-05-13
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chennai/comments/13fxy7o/rant_revoked_offer_sleepless_nights_need_some/
--- POST TEXT ---

Ippave clarify pannikuren, this is more of a rant than a cry for help. Athan I didn't put it under the Job flair ( I don't want my potential employer to know me through this vulnerable rant)

Nan oru passionate computer science eng. grad nga. Oralavuku nalla than padipen due to interest. To be graduating this year. Last august la, i.e first month of our campus placements la I got a job with a very decent salary. Semma proud peeling for me and fam. Athukapram clg layum vera companies okkara vidla cuz of higher pay and even I didn't want to pluck someone else's chance who is yet to get an offer. 

This job was a big deal for me, enna even though my parents are very supportive, I never liked 'asking' them anything. I always wanted to earn things myself, so I live a relatively frugal life antha aspect la. And I was also proud cause I got the job without cheating, oru line code kooda engayum refer pannathilla even during online rounds, when mostly everyone was malpracticing in one way or another.

Cut to december, company January intern ah April postpone pantanga, assuring us that no need to worry of layoff or recession. Nanum jolly ah irunthten

Cut to 5 days before my intern date , I get a mail saying they can't onboard freshers due to financial crisis in thir company and recession. Total devastation than. Clg ayum blame pana mudla, they couldnt do anything now mostly cuz of recession.

Enaku enna hurt aachu na mostly, when people who got undeserving jobs through some cheating, insta la story potu, appa ammaku phone la vaangi koduthu they be happy. And no, the myth of "avungala pressure lam handle panna mudiathu after joining the job" lam summanga, in the IT field u can still sustain if your company work culture is good. Nan honest ah irunthathuku I feel like Im getting punished ippa. Also, I'm not a jealous person, I highly refrain from envy, so ipdilam yosikarthe making me hate myself. I thought I will lose this dread and sadness in a couple days, aana one month aagiyum Im still having sleepless nights over these thoughts.

Ipa looking for jobs in recession. Etho oru chinna confidence iruku I can land a job nu, but have to compromise for a third of the salary I got placed. Im thankful my parents are still supportive. 2024 batch students on campus edho job land aanalum pls off campus oru back up vachikonga da pera pasangala. Share your insights, advise, whatever you mean to makkale. Mukkiayama if u have been thru something similar, pls do let us know the story.