SOURCE: Reddit - r/Hyderabad
CITY: Hyderabad
TITLE: Before I sign off...
AUTHOR: MyselfSK
DATE: 2025-04-19
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1k2jfuu/before_i_sign_off/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hi everyone, I am 23 M currently working in hyderabad and this is my story, So I have 7L in debt, and stuck in a debt trap, I earn good (1.2Lpm) but due to many small app loans I took last year, I got stuck in debt trap, and now montly emis exceed even 93K. I was paying somehow for last three months by taking money from friends and family, but now I am done, this month due to emergencies I had to use my money and currently I am overdue on payments, I dont have money left, and no asset as well. The only thing I own is a gaming laptop and that's all. I understand I did a mistake and tried to rectify it to no avail. Currently, the harassment has reached it's peek. I tried for loans from various places, some people extended their help in trying to sanction a loan, but I have not been able to get one, my cibil after all the overdues is 717 right now, still no loan possible to consolidate all this. I researched a little bit online, and found that if I die these loans will be closed as there is no co-applicant or guarantor. I have tried all possible ways tried asking people for loan on public forums, in locality, within my family and friends as well, but couldn't get any. Some were skeptic, and I understand their skepticism there are many scams happening, but I just wanted one ray of hope, I just wanted for someone to trust me just once, I was going to repay the loan with 35% interest, higher than any other investment opportunity, I can pay this much comfortably without any issues, I just wanted someone to trust me I cant pay 93k+ every month with rent and fees for my brother and daily expenses, I cant live like that, I just wanted someone to trust me once just one opportunity one chance one way out, I provided all proofs but to no avail. It left me thinking what did we create this world into? a hell!

So, this is just something I wanted to let out before I off myself. I have decided to do it tomorrow morning and to live today's day to fullest with my loved ones for one last time. 

I want to give a word of advice to other younger generation, Never ever in life take loan unless necessary and only through banks, I learned this lesson the hard way, but it's ok.

Thank you very much to all the people who have tried to help me.

Signing off.... Peace✌🏻