SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kolkata
CITY: Kolkata
TITLE: In a time of deceit, telling the truth is a revolutionary act. -George Orwell
AUTHOR: selflove_AM
DATE: 2024-08-20
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/kolkata/comments/1ewpt1q/in_a_time_of_deceit_telling_the_truth_is_a/
--- POST TEXT ---

I found the above picture in one of my IG followers story today morning and took an ss. As it can be seen , this particular template has been shared by thousands. Both including Hindus and Muslims. The person who posted it is a Muslim who studies in a premier institute of Kolkata. Goes on to show that a fancy degree is not equal to critical thinking.
 
Am I generalising and pushing a particular agenda? NO
Does this show how the current ruling party has created a vote bank and how the so-called educated people are somehow complicit in every scam, corruption and crime that has taken place by turning a blind eye ? YES 
Didi has created a trustworthy vote bank of people from a particular community by promising freebies and whatever else.What's sad is that crime does not recognise caste or creed but some people fail to see this. 
 Every sane person accepts the fact that BJP is a bigot party. There can be no deliberation on this. Does this absolve the current ruling party of all its crimes and scams and corruption? The people of the state still fail to recognize the inherent evil and malice this party has spread in the entire land. 
Our favourite defense is whataboutism. Trust me , I come from a family who has always voted for CPM. I sat them down and spelled out many heinous acts of the CPM party during their 34 year rule. Nobody will argue the fact that CPM resorted to muscle power and bloody means to get their work done. 
We always resort to comparing which party commited the most violence as if a state's progress is measured by amount of crimes and scams and not real development of infrastructure and quality of life. 
After the daylight dictatorship and talibani attitude of the Mananiya and her cronies, if people still fail to take cognition of the fact that we are deep deep down a shithole, then I am sorry to say we have to witness far worse stuff in the coming days. 

I am not advocating for any particular party. I am not paid to do that. But if we still remain silent and let a handful of people run a false and dangerous narrative just to satisy their own ends, then let's just say history will herself avert her eyes from the disaster that's gonna follow. 

If someone wants to call me privileged, bigot or anything else...line diye daran. Dhakka dhakki korben na.