SOURCE: Reddit - r/Udaipur
CITY: Udaipur
TITLE: Gangaur Ghat potential scam
AUTHOR: drippingyo
DATE: 2024-12-10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/udaipur/comments/1hb7t0j/gangaur_ghat_potential_scam/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hi, sharing my experience with a tout on Gangaur Ghat which was a mild annoyance in an otherwise dreamy week I spent in Udaipur and had a bomb of a time helped by recommendations from this sub. 

Here's the series of events, 
 1. Me and my wife entered Gangaur Ghat.
 2. Two guys approached us asking if we were a married couple.
 3. Upon saying yes, one of them started the pitch saying that there's a Hospitality Company doing a lucky draw and handed me and my wife one sealed envelope each.
 4. Then he told us both to open our envelops, mine said better luck next time but my wife's is attached in the photos here. 
 5. Wife's envelope says you're eligible to win one of four very tempting guaranteed prizes.
 6. Now both of them congratulate us and tell us that the next step is to go to Karohi Haveli where we have to attend a 45 minutes session (apparently only 15 minutes are mandatory) after which, we would scratch the card in front of the company executive who would give us the prize. 
 7. He wrote down his name and contact details (I have masked) on the card and told us to only scratch it in front of company executive else it becomes invalid.
 8. I scratched it off then and there, it said we've won the lucky draw and the prize was 3 days and 2 nights free stay at any of Country Club resorts/hotels across India and South Asia.
 9. I kept the card in pocket and forgot about it.

Now as a general rule in life, I follow if something is too good to be true, it probably is. So I searched the internet for similar scams.

At best this was not a scam and just very scummy marketing practices for time share country club nonsense. This is a universal thing, has been around forever. At worst it was someone trying to get our contact details to sell them to data aggregators.

Thanks