SOURCE: Reddit - r/Hyderabad
CITY: Hyderabad
TITLE: I can’t believe that I’d hear such conversation  in real life
AUTHOR: pkm_idol
DATE: 2025-04-10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1jvrbcf/i_cant_believe_that_id_hear_such_conversation_in/
--- POST TEXT ---

I often come across stories like this online, but today I overheard one in real life, right next to my table at a Starbucks in Begumpet.

Two people, probably friends catching up after many years, were deep in conversation. The man talked about divorcing his wife and now dating someone new. He seemed to have taken a straightforward path, he ended a relationship that wasn’t working and moved on instead of cheating. 

The woman of his friend, on the other hand, is still married with a kid, yet was casually laughing about having had flings with stranger after having a kid. She said she stopped doing it coz that stranger wants to marry her. 

I get that people might be unhappy in their marriages—but is cheating the first thing some choose to do instead of dealing with it honestly like moving away from marriage? Anyways she gets half of the assets and can move on with anyone. 

It was striking to see how both of them approached the same problem in such different ways. One took responsibility, ended the marriage, and is trying to rebuild. The other is still in the marriage, talking about her emotional trauma while actively cheating on her husband.

They both seemed to be in their late 30s or early 40s.

Men today are generally on their best compared to previous generations but with women it is going opposite and the sad part is, the law seems to turn a blind eye when it comes to women being unfaithful in marriage. In fact they are encouraging the women to be infidelity coz there is no law for them to be punished and they can do it.

No wonder families are turning into a circus.

Remember those tips from elders have a kid you won’t have such problems. I don’t think it works now. 

Men in marriage looses everything, your family is important but your life comes first. 

Regardless, I don't see this shit with the closed people who are around me.