SOURCE: Reddit - r/Jaipur
CITY: Jaipur
TITLE: It can save lives if anyone here is going through bad phase...This Too Shall pass.
AUTHOR: Candid-Fill6225
DATE: 2024-11-11
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/jaipur/comments/1gop1s3/it_can_save_lives_if_anyone_here_is_going_through/
--- POST TEXT ---

In the name of curiosity(roommate of mine asked me to bring alcohol for him). I started smoking weed in my second year of college for the first it was really a rollercoaster, to learn how to roll by watching video on youtube and content collected by the IMDb top 200 movies started churning and it became cool to smoke, I made some theories after smoking like alpha is the type of high weed give beta is alcohol high(in 2015 only the roommate introduced to drinking). Anyways things were fine on weekends we used to smoke up with other stoner friends and senior. But it was fine no BT untill 2017, after several months I had my first bad experience that was not able to sleep after smoke session.
I was not fine with that experience I had to sleep in friend's room as in my room I was not able to sleep.
Still I was not convinced that weed is the culprit. Everyone was enjoying it, except me.
Now after months passed away I had a toke here n there so things never got worst.
But but now after all this I had a connection with a girl she was desperate for sex I wasn't despo but yeah often use to mastrubation.
Girl was fine but for me it was first time, I wanted someone eat pizza and enjoy traveling she was against it as she wanted it to be a secret I was immature or bhola for such relationship. Anyways started enjoy sex and also fell in love. But for her I was still a connection and as the year ended we went to our homes....etc I found out that in the same room we were staying, she came here with her devil(blackmail) ex receptionist told while noting details. I was stunned 😳. 
Felt bad and now my trust issues started to apply to anyone and anything plus I was smoking weed.
I got derailed I had to run to home, my medication started which I take untill now.
After this incident she had change of heart but my mental issues were boiling and I had trust issues in everything possible but whenever she called me for sex I went for it I was addicted to toxicity, sex, weed and medicines.
In short after college I avoided her to save my career as I had planned before college only ICS so I took placement and internship litely.
In 2019 I graduated and cameback home decided not to move to capital.
2020,2021,2022,2024 I just smoked or ate bhaang and made my parents life hell like.. Because I was still convinced weed is cool.
Not seeing the obvious I was taking 10 tab for a whole day as to not get paagal even if go for weed.
Due to my parents patience and belief in god I am stable now still I take medicine but mgs are down and also number of tablets 7.
But I still find it cool the world becomes a wonderland after smoking, this belief is killing me. I took therapy, spiritual knowledge my life has changed a bit I now found everything enjoyable, clean since months now, the world was always wonderland I just ruined it for me and my people.

Please moderator allow this post, it can save lives.