SOURCE: Reddit - r/Bengaluru
CITY: Bengaluru
TITLE: New scam in town - Mandates and autopays for NGO
AUTHOR: vibhinna_
DATE: 2024-11-07
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Bengaluru/comments/1glp43y/new_scam_in_town_mandates_and_autopays_for_ngo/
--- POST TEXT ---

Scam Alert Bengaluru church street for doctors without borders

A bunch of 20-22 olds from Kerala were talking to random people and asking for fundraising for TB vaccines. 

I was in a hurry and a girl stopped me and asked if I have a minute. I said no and was in a hurry and proceeded to move she said pls don't be rude. 

Now I wanted to be actually rude now. She showed a panplet and talked about the NGO and said you can make payment now or later in monthly installment. I said I will not do now. Give me details so i can verify and pay later. 

She asked me register. I gave fake details. In next page it asked bank details.I asked her who would give bank details - she is like we just need to authenticate. Again gave fake details and what i realised it was creating a mandate. They were fooling people. I blasted her. 

She is like I told you can do it in installments, but that doesn't mean mandates. Also not surprisingly she tried to make conversation while I was entering details.
1. Asked me if I'm from Kerala and i look like one
2. Asked me if I go to the gym and she does too. Said you had a broad chest. 

I mean how does it matter? She thought I would just fall for this small talks. 

Anyways, finally I said you guys are fooling people. Create mandates and make money. I don't even know if you guys are genuine. She is like okay sorry please go, sorry to bother you. 

I said thank god you didn't piss me off for I would have called the police. Another guy from her team was listening to this and when I made eye contact he just escaped.

Are these people naive or doing this knowing entirely it's a scam. How do they verify if amount is going to right party. 
What should I have done? 

TLDR : New scam asking for funds for needy and adding bank accounts to create mandates for autopay.