SOURCE: Reddit - r/Hyderabad
CITY: Hyderabad
TITLE: Would BSNL succeed with all the scammer mentality of their employees 
AUTHOR: reddit_tmp_usr
DATE: 2024-08-30
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1f4rzuo/would_bsnl_succeed_with_all_the_scammer_mentality/
--- POST TEXT ---

As BSNL was getting the hype these days, I thought why not give it a try and was trying to buy a sim. 

I couldn't find any places like Airtel service centres at my place and when I saw people selling them in the road side tents, I thought to give it a try.

When I approached, the guy selling those BSNL sims told that sim is free but I need to make rs.250 recharge compulsorily for the first time and asked me to pay to him.

Now after few hours, when the sim is activated, I saw that the guy didn't even recharge the sim and I thought he might have forgot and missed it, so I called him up to ask about it, he said he will do it in some time.

And it's been few days, where he is just dodging the calls and not replying anything.

I know that he just a dealer or an employee from BSNL might have employed this guy to issue sim cards, so I just called the BSNL customer care to give complaint on this guy as he might be cheating many others.

After 24mins of IVR, when I got connected to a human, they simply said they can't take a complaint even if I can share the dealer details( I got few details from him while taking the sim).

Now I'm wondering why should I encourage these scammers of BSNL, I'm more pissed here because BSNL doesn't want to take any action on these people who are shaming the company name by scamming people.

So now I feel that all the money that govt is spending on revival of BSNL is going to be wasted again as they didn't fix their core problem which is corruption.

And I'm thinking would it be ethical of me to share the personal details of this scammer on online forums so people can call him and bash him up for malpractices.

If BSNL just continues like this, I think the other players would just keep increasing the prices and we will not have any choice as we would always be thinking BSNL is trustworthy at all. 

Let me know your thoughts.