SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kolkata
CITY: Kolkata
TITLE: Moved to Kolkata from Italy 1month ago - here's my impressions
AUTHOR: aibasb
DATE: 2025-03-02
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/kolkata/comments/1j1qey6/moved_to_kolkata_from_italy_1month_ago_heres_my/
--- POST TEXT ---

I am an Italian expat, 27yo who had previously come to India for an NGO program (2018) and then for backpacking (2024). I had long been cultivating a passion for India from the music to the movies to the literature and languages and I myself compose poetry in Hindi/Urdu (I was sort of "on tour" during my backpack days, [this article](https://www.deccanchronicle.com/southern-states/telangana/the-magic-of-urdu-poetry-draws-an-italian-to-the-city-1837991) is from when I performed in Hyderabad). Then, in late 2024, I was offered a corporate job at a multinational firm. The job opening was in Kolkata, which I had never visited, but I saw it as my ticket to settle in India at least for a bit and explore my passion for local arts in the meantime. (Locals always tells me "why did you bother moving here when it is us trying to move to Europe" and I never quite know what to reply).

So I recently completed one month here and I felt like sharing some feelings and thoughts I matured throughout this time:

1. People are SUPER CHILL. As a foreigner I go on with my daily life getting NONE of the stares or low-key harassment I get in a city like Delhi. Throughout one month no one attempted to scam me on prices and stuff - in fact it has even happened that I do my groceries using basic Bengali and streetside vendors gave me discounts. The mindset feels very open-minded, one of the first things that caught my eyes was the amount of girls smoking cigarettes by the sigret-walas stalls which, sure, can be a common sight in Delhi or Mumbai but in other cities like Jaipur would get a woman very bad stares. The only annoying people have been the Uber drivers which are often trying to raise their price and it's something I have not seen happening in other cities in India. And the whole "log-kya-kahenge" mindset is unfortunately still there when it comes to intimacy, although I assume couples still have more freedom than in most other cities.
2. The Indian "corporate mazdoori" really is as intense as people say. My Indian colleagues are overworked and I hate seeing this. The 9-5 is there on paper but not in practice. Work-life balance is non-existent. I try to wrap up my work by 5 and go home but it's often not possible. Other expats I spoke to said that "Indians work beyond official hours because they are slow" and I thought it was a kinda racist take. Personally I take the mazdoori as the price to pay to be in a country I love in many other aspects. And in a sense it keeps me humble and grounded, I take it as an exercise in empathy and adaptability skills and I stay grateful in that it makes me experience another way of life that most Europeans are "sheltered" from. I'd probably take this more "raw" and "real" experience over being one of those white guys much wealthier than me who settle in Goa on tourist visa, squander their rich parents' money and just smoke up and do yoga all day. Still I do hope this toxic work culture changes one day.
3. Despite talks of India being very bureaucratic, it was pretty straightforward to move here. Within one month I was able to register at the police thana, find a flat, register my new address with the police again, open a local bank account, and I am soon to receive my PAN Card (yes, I have to pay my taxes here lol).
4. I have not done any tourism besides Indian Museum &amp; Victoria Memorial but still, Kolkata really has its charm. You don't always see an Indian city with so many old buildings still standing. Post-1857 the Brits did their best to destroy Delhi and I feel like the city's architecture and urban planning never recovered. Agra and Lucknow have many non-touristy monuments crumbling down, Hyderabad and Bhopal are in even sadder states. My first impression is that Kolkata is slightly better maintained. The scope for better preservation is still there though. It really breaks my heart when I see a beautiful 19th century building entirely covered in some poster where Allu Arjun is holding a Thumbs-Up.
5. The affordable housing omg!!! My Mumbai, Delhi, Bangalore, Chandigarh etc friends CRY when they hear how much a 1bhk costs here.
6. Lastly, before you ask me whether I found authentic pizzas in Kolkata, I'll say that I have not explored much but this one place, [Raj's Spanish Cafe](https://g.co/kgs/54M4gYq), surprisingly had very authentic-tasting pizzas despite not being an Italian resturant per se lol. But the search goes on...

I think this is all I can think of for now, honestly been having a great experience here overall. Gonna try to make more time to explore more and am eager to see what more Kolkata holds for me! :)