SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: Was I duped? Rant/ questions on housing.com, premium service, broker service charge and rents.
AUTHOR: pinctada13
DATE: 2024-10-04
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1fvsvn7/was_i_duped_rant_questions_on_housingcom_premium/
--- POST TEXT ---

I am looking for a 1bhk in Saket and I'm a little overwhelmed with the whole househunting process, unsure if I am doing the right thing, wondering if people are out there to defraud me, etc. This post is going to sound jumbled because it is a mix of rant/ advice-seeking/ caveats for people looking for rents. Apologies in advance 🙏. But please hear me out. Would appreciate any sympathetic words, advice and/or leads. 

I downloaded housing.com app a couple of days ago. I got a call convincing me to buy their premium service and I - despite an initial bravado of not giving an f - called them back and bought it. They were supposed to provide me with a 'relationship manager' (RM for short) who would help me shortlist properties for me to choose from to make visits at NO BROKERAGE CHARGES. They would also help me negotiate rents, they said. I thought that was a good deal.

The RM has not yet sent me a single property link! I'm wondering if they convince people to get premium only to extract money without providing any service. Has anyone experienced RM services before? Has it been helpful? 

Feeling a bit frustrated I called up a broker - called 'agent' on the app - listed under one of the properties advertised on the app and asked her (the person listed had a name of a man 👀) if she could show me a few places. She agreed and put the following conditions: if I finalise any property, then I just pay her brokerage fees - the usual stuff. But if I look around properties and then don't end up choosing anything, they'll charge me 'service charge'. I let out an incredulous gasp as I had never heard of such a thing and in response the woman basically yelled at me, "ghumne thode hi na le jayenge?!" And cut the call before I could say anything.

My question: is this 'service charge' normal on housing.com? Or is it a scam? Will other brokers charge this too? I have dealt with brokers found outside of this app before (for other localities) but they've never charged me such a fee.

I am asking this because given the pace at which the RM is working (or not working), I might as well look for places through brokers. I wouldn't mind paying money for things if it's the norm/ is legitimate/ is legal. I just don't want to be made a fool of.

My other question is just rent related: could you please tell me other localities which have relatively affordable rents (15k max for 1bhk)? Some of my basic requirements are: houses have good ventilation, regular water supply, people are not judgy about lifestyle habits, a green space at walking distance (small park would do), transportation (metro station, e-rickshaw, autos accessible). Doesn't have to be posh. Thanks