SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kolkata
CITY: Kolkata
TITLE: Dating apps and to some extent dating sucks if you're an average middle-class introverted Indian guy
AUTHOR: sidroy81
DATE: 2024-04-12
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/kolkata/comments/1c2fxuv/dating_apps_and_to_some_extent_dating_sucks_if/
--- POST TEXT ---

21M here. This is gonna be a frustrated rant-filled post so if you're not interested you don't need to comment. It's also very angry and bitter so if I get hated for this I can understand.

Last week I had begun talking to a girl on a dating app (my first time) and it didn't really work out. My questions were too bland and interviewy and her replies were too dry. She tried to fake interest for a couple of days and then ghosted me. The conversation didn't go on for more than a couple of days. I don't have an issue with the fact that I got rejected, the only thing that annoys me is that she could've simply informed me that I wasn't what she was looking for or she'd gotten someone better. I would've understood her pov and moved on myself. Yeah I know it's my fault for having stupid expectations but everybody makes up fake scenarios in their heads when they like someone don't they? I even showed the chat to some female friends of mine and they did admit I could've been a bit more un-boring but there has to be interest from both sides, how the fuck am I supposed to know what the other person enjoys without getting to know her? Well at least they said I didn't completely screw it up, the girl had no interest in me. According to them some girls create profiles for fun or they find someone and take the conversation to Instagram and forget to delete their profiles. She seemed sensible but I guess looks can be deceiving, people nowadays don't have the basic decency or common sense to not let the other person hanging. Plus the gender ratio there is totally fucked, cus for every girl there are min 100+ guys and you have to be fucking exceptional in every sense (looks, personality, humour blah-blah) to get noticed for sometime before you get ghosted. The competition is fucking brutal in metro cities. And it all feels fucking pointless cus there everything is just materialistic and toxic and you're all fighting for the attention of someone who doesn't deserve half of it instead of building genuine relationships with genuine people.

On the other hand my social life is almost non-existent. I'm in an engineering college and spend most of my time working. My friends are just like me, we're broke and boring and socially awkward people. Partying and clubbing seem superficial to me and a complete waste of parents' hard-earned money. Everything and everyone is just fake nowadays. Childhood was so simple.

The weird part is I have female friends. I'm not as awkward around girls as my male friends. But I have never dated nor been in a relationship in my entire fucking life and from the looks of it doesn't seem like I'm gonna have any experience this year either. I did try approaching a few girls irl but it went to shit cus I was so awkward with them. Have been friendzoned all my life. Girls are totally comfortable around me and can say anything to me, but they like having me only as a friend and nothing more. This makes no sense to me. I don't wanna be that "boy bestie" anymore. And I'm not lusting on any of them, but I don't get why I get called words like "cute" but apparently I'm not sexually attractive to anyone. They say ki there's a pure bond with me and they don't wanna spoil it with lust. The fuck is that? I have asked out girls irl (once in school and once in college) but they went so embarrassingly bad that they cringed out and we had to avoid each other for sometime. I can't help it, I'm just shy and introverted and socially awkward.

Dating apps are a fucking scam. Bc koi fayda nahi hai. I made the best profile I could with the approval of my friends and still no matches. This girl I matched with on Hinge was the only one and that chance is gone too. On the other hand I see fuckbois matching with multiple girls and having a very "happening" dating life. And then girls cry about boys wanting only sex. Nahi behen, maybe give the genuine guys a chance too and you won't regret it. Par aapko toh sirf excitement chahiye na? But then yeah I can't blame them too, cus I'm emotionally stunted myself (not being sarcastic) and they have their own wishes and desires. Won't be surprised to discover I have autism or something lol.

I know all this is gonna be seen as a rant of a sad, lonely random loser and I'm gonna be called an inc\*l and whatnot but I have stopped giving a fuck. I tried and tried multiple times and failed every single time. And yeah I know someone's gonna say "this is not the age for relationships, this is the age for building character and studying", well screw you dude. Loneliness sucks. I'm not fantasizing about that SRK-type silly escapist romance, I just want someone to share their time with me and vice versa. I know I have to focus on self-development and stuff but for how long? And why should I if there's nobody for me? All sorts of morons are having the time of their lives while the so-called mature, sensible guys are screwed. I know all this depends upon luck and mine sucks, and I can't do shit to change it.

Rant over I guess. I am not even sure why I made this post lol.

PS - I read this a few hours after writing it and damn I am surprised with my own bitterness. But venting does feel good lol.