SOURCE: Reddit - r/Guwahati
CITY: Guwahati
TITLE: I helped my friend's EX.
AUTHOR: prativafromjune
DATE: 2025-02-09
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/guwahati/comments/1ikwp19/i_helped_my_friends_ex/
--- POST TEXT ---

So, I had a friend named Sirii since Class 1.

She had multiple relationships—her first one was online. But even during all of this, she had a long-time crush on a guy named nava from her society. They exchanged Instagram IDs and became friends.—she liked him, but she also had a boyfriend. She even started talking to her crush using a different Instagram account. She was always raw with and shared everything, but he didn't like her that way. He said!

After some time, she was proposed by someone new(Nava's frnd). I used to think she was such a sweet girl. But after 10th grade, we were at different school, and I didn’t realize how much she had changed.

One night, at 2 AM, she video-called me, crying. Her boyfriend had left her and gone back to his ex. I got so angry that I went on Instagram and cursed him out. He fought back, saying, "You don’t know anything." But I didn’t listen.

Later, Siri told me that whenever there were outings, if her boyfriend found out I was coming, he would refuse to go. You know, small arguments like that. Once, the three of us were sitting in a cab, with Sirii in the middle. Not once we looked at each other for once.

Haha… jokes aside.

One day, she dropped another breakup bomb on me. My other friend(bstfrnd) and I spent 4-5 days on a conference call, trying to console her. We even tried to get them(she and her bf) to talk again.

But then, through shiv (siri's bf) we found out that Sirii had completely changed. She was making that poor guy’s life miserable. He just wanted to take care of his family, study, earn, and build his future. Meanwhile, Siri had failed her exams and was telling him to fail with her. Or else, she threatened him " bhaga ke le ja" or else she don’t know what she'll do to herself." 
And obviously, no one would listen to him—everyone would blame him, including me.

My friend and I started feeling really bad for him.

One time, Siri, my best friend, and I were on a conference call when her dad overheard everything. He pressured us to reveal the guy’s name, threatening to come to our houses if we didn’t. I stayed silent, but my best friend spoke up.

Now, Siri blames me, thinking I was the one who told her dad. She started hating me. Earlier, whenever she had a problem, she would come to both of us. But now, she doesn't even answer my calls—she only asks my best friend for help.

I kept quiet because if I said anything, she would start hating my best friend too.

At one point, she even pretended to be pregnant (she was just 18) just to force him to run away with her. But how could that poor guy abandon his parents? And run with her even when he has no money! (Though my friend is rich here..hehehhe)

He had proof of everything—her sex chats, cheating, drinking, and drug use. In return, she constantly humiliated him and even threatened to go to his house. she was bullying him to stay.
Sumi had lost all sense of shame. She had become addicted to doing anything with anyone. She even talked dirty with her boyfriend’s friends(boys). And yes, they told him everything.

In the end, my best friend and I decided not to tell Siri’s parents or anyone else about shiv and to hide is identity if siri tries to frame him. And promised him to make sure she wouldn’t harm herself.

The guy wanted to block her and asked for our permission. After discussing it, we agreed. If it had been our own brother, we wouldn’t have let him tolerate a girl like her either.

(So what if she was our friend? Should we forget basic humanity too?)

But he was a good person. Before leaving, he said, "I really thought I would spend a great time with her, move forward in life with her, and even let her forget about Nava by his love towards her (yeah he already knew about nava..but he thought she'll will forget him)

He said he had no complaints from her. He said "Take care of her… and if you ever need me, don’t hesitate to reach out."