SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kolkata
CITY: Kolkata
TITLE: In my last post about Cheating in English exam
AUTHOR: EnigmaticSorceries
DATE: 2022-07-09
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/kolkata/comments/vuvx3u/in_my_last_post_about_cheating_in_english_exam/
--- POST TEXT ---

OK so some of you have taken serious offense to my last post. I wanna clarify it all here.

My post was about how I managed to pull off something like copying from my phone from the very first bench infront of 5 invigilators. It was never about being proud to cheat and pass. I've never used cheat papers or anything similar in school even though I was a below average student.

You don't know crap about my life and you felt the need to judge me. Well here's something about me. My dream is to be an IITian. I didn't qualify last year. This is my last chance. My parents won't let me drop cause it's the same as being idle to them for some reason. I had to take admission in a college. I am quite decent in English so I chose it. Now I am currently studying B.A hons, JEE syllabus and Economics and History as side subject. English is not a second option or a fluke for me. I treat it with equal respect to my science subjects. If I didn't have to, I wouldn't take it. I had no choice. It was either both or none. 

About the test itself- There were two 20 marks questions on Addison's essays and Robinson Crusoe. I didn't get the time to study either one properly. Yes I cheated! And I do feel guilty about that. You say that's unfair to others?? Lol it's been unfair to me for the past two years now. And about sincerity?? I can guarantee I am one of the most if not the most sincere students. You know how I can say that?? CAUSE I NEVER COPIED WITHOUT STUDYING EVEN IN ONLINE EXAMS. My online exams weren't very good (Bs and Cs and a few As) but I gave those exams honestly. 

I was scared that I would fail. Leaving 40 marks is no joke. If I didn't care about the subject cause I won't finish it then I wouldn't bother taking a risk like that. I've fully read every novel, every poem, every drama and every suggested reading. No I didn't get the time to practise writing all of them but I never depended on dishonest means. 

I normally wouldn't care for clarifying my actions to strangers on reddit but being called insincere was like the final straw.
Out of 4 papers I cheated and secured like 25 marks. That's unfair?? So be it! It's been always unfair to me. I have to study without books(I download every book I need from a pirate website I guess that's cheating as well?)If not for the internet, there would be no hope of doing anything that I do. I don't have time or money for tutions and depend on YouTube. 

 My school sucked. I only started to love studying after school ended. I'm not an idiot to be a below average student and aim for the toughest exam in the country. So don't go judging me without knowing a damn thing.

And again, my post wasn't a celebration of cheating but pulling off a near impossible task. Yea I'm a little childish so what?

That's all 
Peace!