SOURCE: Reddit - r/Bhopal
CITY: Bhopal
TITLE: Beware of NN dogs , on a hunt nowadays !!
AUTHOR: random-93
DATE: 2024-04-20
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Bhopal/comments/1c8tj7i/beware_of_nn_dogs_on_a_hunt_nowadays/
--- POST TEXT ---

Today I (localite) went to Lake for running by evening,
I parked my vehicle ( 2 wheeler) in front of vardhman park gate , infront of those stalls,

Had a jog by the lakeside for around an hour , had some pics ( above ),
When i came back i couldn't spot my vehicle,
I knew i was fuc*ed , asked the nearby stallkeeper - have you seen my vehicle ? , he told me to go to NN office beside the mandir .

Thankfully i found my vehicle there .
But the guy( some karamchari ) was asking for ₹600 , i asked him WTF man why my vehicle?
I can see 10s of vehicles by there ,
Not even a sign of no parking, no barricades,
If you don't want the public to park there just do something , I've been parking my vehicle there since 5 years . No one said anything!

I tried convincing him , i was angry as hell ( but calm outside) he went from 600 to 300 real quick,
Not a penny afterward
,This mf karamchari was so fucking rude , still i somehow convinced to pay him 300 ( was not accepting upi earlier).

Three people he went free who just gave a call to some mama chacha , i saw them going for free ,
I again argued ( i was ready to pay 300 till now),
But now my temperature was going high , he was rude af .

I told him i won't pay you a fucking penny as you released them release me as well . Bloody asshole 
Now wants me to pay 600 🤣.

The problem was i was getting late to my home ,
I was chill on the outside, burning on the inside,
Even I tried some political friends of mine ,
Nothing worked coz of achar sahinta .

As i was getting late , I tried my best to convince him , paid him 250 and went straight back to my home.

The thing is beware of Nagar nigam dogs they're on the hunt nowadays , they've made traps to blackmail you. Especially with this achar sahinta.

+ i might take revenge soon . Will make a video of him asking for bribe , will play uno reverse . Atleast take my money back .

We'll see coz i might.