SOURCE: Reddit - r/Vijayawada
CITY: Vijayawada
TITLE: Genuinely Helping Vijayawada family: coz hardly any student is aware about it.
AUTHOR: GuluGulu420si
DATE: 2025-05-06
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/vijayawada/comments/1kg5y56/genuinely_helping_vijayawada_family_coz_hardly/
--- POST TEXT ---

Since no one knows about this. Hear me out, attempts to find out actual ways of earning money or atleast fund our education ourselves during tough times is a bit challenging task. Even banks hesitate to give loan because of obvious reasons.

There are private scholarships which are given by companies.

Let me tell you briefly: Big companies like Google, Reliance, etc., MNCs ,charitable foundation they all provide financial support in form of scholarships to students those are good in studies or even average or unprivileged or financially struggling. You need not pay back the scholarship amount in the first place.

Sometimes, they may award you as high as 50 thousand to support your education. They just ask for basic details like your class, year background etc. Generally, scholarships are awarded on the basis of merit and financial condition. It may vary case to case.

Many times, scholarship providers have their own dedicated portals through which you can fill up the scholarship application forms online which hardly takes 5 to 10 minutes.

Those who don't know, there is a term known as 'Corporate Social Responsibility' Policy under which big companies must have to spend a part of their profit for good causes like education, healthcare, environment etc. It's not that these opportunities are meant only for undergraduate studies. They can vary from nursery to PhD level..

For public awareness for scholarships, I have uploaded over 99 videos on youtube to spread information about such opportunities which are new and active and most importantly, known to lesser people. And everyone can apply and get selected.

The yt channel name is AAGE HAMESHA public awareness. If you're still unable to find, then dm.

Give this post utmost priority- don't be negligent towards education funding opportunities.

This is all i could do as a student.

(Upvote if it is helpful)

Remember that the real and valid scholarships are only those which have absolutely 0 registration fees. Never pay anyone anything. i am repeating this because during tough times you are prone to get victimized out of some scholarship test scam or whatever.

I just wanted to share this because no one talks about it openly.

I hope this message reach to all those students who are struggling to pay hefty school/college fees.