SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kolkata
CITY: Kolkata
TITLE: Beware !! Loan app scam
AUTHOR: cluelessdesi
DATE: 2023-08-02
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/kolkata/comments/15fmk1b/beware_loan_app_scam/
--- POST TEXT ---

Guys, I have just been duped by a fraud loan app. I actually needed some urgent cash and was exploring different loan apps and created profile. I came across this app called GoldRupee( [https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.app.goldrupee](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.app.goldrupee)). 

I merely created and account but didn't apply for any loan, but once they got my bank account number they just like that disbursed a loan of 16k, that too without any loan agreement or sanction letter or so and credited my account with only 9k with 7k as service charge but I have to repay 16k. There was no procedure what so ever, no CIBIL score verification no nothing.

 I looked for the customer care number/email and realized I walked myself into a scam🤡🤡. They only had an email address and it wasn't an official email address, it was @outlook email ID. 

I went forward to check the Google plastered reviews (obviously there were 5star fake reviews) and when I checked the 1star reviews i got(still am) very disturbed. They just disburse the money without any agreement or your knowledge and within 7 days demand almost double of what was credited and if you fail to do so they threaten to sent your morphed pics to your contacts and even harass them. 

It doesn't end there, some of the people even said that even after you repay the loan, they will credit loan to your account again and demand you to pay back the full amount or else make photo Edits of you and circulate on the internet. Sometimes even after you pay they keep asking for more.

I got way too desperate and literally started goggling the people who gave the reviews(people who had uncommonnames so that it was easier to search) and tried contacting them via linkedin, instagram, face book etc. Fortunately 3 people responded and told that they also suffered the same fate and for one of them they actually sent morphed pics to their contacts so she got a new number itself.

I know I should have made better judgements however I didn't. I somehow paid my pending 16k loan on the very same day I they disbursed the 9k (today) and now just praying that they leave me alone and don't harass me or my contacts after 7 days. 

On the bright side I saw some youtube videos where ppl take a random cheap phone with no photos or contacts and not much apps either and then they install these fraud loan apps (they dilter it out with the help of reviews) and take the loan. So now even when the scammers call these ppl, they don't pay back the money because the scammers don't have much info(leverage) against them nir can they complainagainst them because they are illegal themselves.

Tl;dr: Try your best not to take loan from these loan apps. If at all you do intend to take, then take it from RBI registered apps only. Most of these unregistered apps are nothing but from some Chinese loan racket( as per news) and for other to make their black money white. If atall you fall for this, immediately file a complaint to the cyber cell. I just did one today.