SOURCE: Reddit - r/Mumbai
CITY: Mumbai
TITLE: Please help me . Seems everything has come to an end.
AUTHOR: SeaworthinessBrave10
DATE: 2022-10-06
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/mumbai/comments/xwlpcy/please_help_me_seems_everything_has_come_to_an_end/
--- POST TEXT ---

Today was the worst day of my life. (26M)
My 3 year relationship with girl(27F) which i was going to marry will come to an end. 
Today when I woke up i didn't even imagine this was gonna happen with me , my gf which i was going to marry(she hasn't informed her family till today for religious difference reason) in coming years called me in afternoon and asked me 50k which i tried to ask her the reason but told will later tell you .We have our give and take money all the time but she never asked this huge amount earlier to which i replied right now i don't have that much will ask from mom and if she has it will send you to which i sent her.
 Later when I was in hospital to check my dad's ECG because of some heart pains which subsided later she told me that she got fraud from some telegram guy using some Walmart website where they have to invest and finish the tasks and later they get commission from it. The amount she told just increased my heart beats like nothing else . It was whooping 1.6 lakhs and i tried to calm myself as much as I can.
Now i hold myself and asked is there any solution of getting this back from that guy , she started crying loudly and told everything to her parents to which she went with her dad to do police complain . After that no contact . Right now in night she tells me that she has told everything to her parents even regarding our relationship and has lost her freedom.
 She told don't come to her as her parents will kill me as they have already beaten her for all the mess.
Now she has told me she will give back my mom 50k but everything else has gone to mess.
I don't know what to do in this situation and what was my mistake . I don't have any friends to share this with nothing I can do . 
Everything in our life was going better never imagined anything like this could ever happen .We were in a kind of looking for better opportunities but having strong suicidal thoughts.
Please do help ...... In any way you think could improve the situation. If she goes there won't be any person left in my world to share my emotions

Edit : She has the details of the bank account to where the amount was sent and scammer still seems to respond her

https://www.wwwwalwalmart.com this is the website she got scammed and she also received few amounts from it 1600 around something and then she was asked to pay more to get more returns and this is where she got scammed as person started asking more and more amounts from her.

Can anyone help to as in any person one can refer to get help from like in banking as well as legal sides so that atleast money could be retrieved.

Update: We have taken all possible actions as we could registering complain in the bank. 
She has given me 40k out of 50k.
Regarding her parents have told her to break contact with me because somehow i supported her in all this to which she has decided to ignore and give ourselves space and time for her to build herself again and maintain low profile relationship.
Got a police stamp on the written letter. Somehow cops are not registering FIR - any help with this like how can we get the FIR thing done.
As with the telegram guy we got his no he is from West Bengal and also called him in front of police to which they replied we are in mumbai he is somewhere else what can we possibly do to him.

If anyone could guide with this website thing we have the bank details. I think this is some kind of money laundering shit or maybe front for terrorist funds. But cops seems to be least bothered and don't want to investigate it. Any help to how to persuade them to investigate would be great.