SOURCE: Reddit - r/Gurgaon
CITY: Gurgaon
TITLE: Got scammed of 6 lakhs
AUTHOR: BriefGuide9398
DATE: 2024-07-05
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/gurgaon/comments/1dw297u/got_scammed_of_6_lakhs/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hey people, yesterday i was driving back to home from gurgaon and my world collapsed soon after i did reach home! 

My parents were shocked to see me and my mother didn’t believe me i was standing there and i got shocked after seeing their expressions !

Soon we all talked and i realised they were conned by someone who claimed to be an officer and told them their son has been arrested with 2 gangsters and if they wanted to save him they need to pay 1 lakh . It happened around 1:30 PM and it kept on going till 7 PM. 

By the time they kept on asking more money from my parents took total of 6 lakhs and i was on gate of my house when they were going to pay more of 5 lakhs!

We all were in shock when we realised what actually happened and it all was surreal. I used to laugh a lot when i saw such scams happening online but my world crashed when it happened to me and I couldn’t believe how my parents were fooled so easily!

P.S. - everyone is just giving us advice on what all should have been done and what shouldn’t!
Even police didn’t lodge any FIR saying there’s no point and all money was transferred in cash ( they deposited cash from bank to scammers account). They just lodged a complaint in NCRB ( this happened in cyber crime cell and not in normal police station ) 

It is more than 24 hours and i have been so angry at them for getting conned to such a foolish thing and not even calling me once to confirm, they have been crying and lost all their confidence along with money and not to mention what all they have gone through in those 5 hours, they have begged and cried infront of scammers to release their son, running from person to person to get that money ASAP and anything could have gone wrong in that time. 

I literally don’t know should i be happy that they sent all the money asked because of their love for me or being so foolish! 

Please do talk and educate your parents about all the cyber crime going on because they are the easiest targets because of love for you!