SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: My milkman isn’t a nice guy and I can’t get over it.
AUTHOR: Informal-Tadpole-463
DATE: 2025-01-10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1hxy317/my_milkman_isnt_a_nice_guy_and_i_cant_get_over_it/
--- POST TEXT ---

I hope some of you understand cuz this won’t be a big deal for most of you guys, but I just can’t forget this.

So I used to buy milk from a dairy near my home since I was a kid. Bought from them since I was 8 and I’m an introvert guy who never does small talk with shopkeeper as running errands was a chore and I wanted to get done with them as soon as I could, no time to talk. 

So this milkman, I used to respect him cuz he looked like a nice guy and I didn’t ever see him reacting badly with anyone, and I expected him to respect me too cuz I’ve been buying form him for at least 10 years and I was always a nice kid who does his work and didn’t bother with anything else. As matter of fact his son and him also returned me more money than they should’ve(₹100 at a time multiple times) and I honesty always returned it back.

So I was 18 at the time when it happened, I bought milk from him and gave him a ₹500 note before he gave me milk, he was attending other customers and gave them milk and then my turn came and he gave me milk, then I was there waiting for him to return me money. He stood there looking at me, I said uncle I gave ₹500 to you. He looked at me with such confusion and said I didn’t give him any money (I’m absent minded alot but this time I remembered I gave him the note). I started smiling cuz the situation was kinda funny to me. He acted so badly he said “daant mat dikha apne, tujhe jaanta nhi hu kya mai, mujhe bewakoof samajh rha h, doodh bhi le jayega aur paise bhi” at that time I was just shocked and so embarrassed like how did he accuse me like that after knowing me for so many years I even returned him his money out of my honesty. I just stood there powerless I said uncle aap dekho maine diye the mujhe yaad h. Unhe nhi mile unhone kaha apna wallet dikha usme paise hue to matlab tu jhoot bol rha h and I had 13.5k in it as I carried all my savings in my wallet then. He said u are lying and I said uncle I’m not and gave him another ₹500 note as I didn’t wanna argue anymore. He said “I know what kinda guy you are, I remember u tried to scam me with that torn ₹100 note(more on this later).

I can tell you that it was one of the worst feeling I ever felt when I knew I did nothing wrong and I’ve never tried to scam anyone in my life and this is what I’m getting. I didn’t say anything to him just got back home and told everything to my mom and mom consoled me saying how I’ve always been so honest and this isn’t what i deserve and told be to be patient about it. She told me to never go back to him and it’s been more than 5 years and I never have.

About that torn ₹100 note thing he was talking about, it was totally unintentional and I had no clue what I did. So what happened was I was always in a rush when it came to running errands and I mistakenly gave him a half torn piece of a ₹100 note then we had a half sitting at home for a very long time and we didn’t knew where the other half went. Then again I took the other half by mistake to him(I was playing battlefield 3 I was too excited about it so i didn’t check the note properly) and he noticed it and said what am i trying to do and he also had the other half of the ₹100 note with him(I was so happy I finally found the other half but I should’ve known it wasn’t a good thing for me), I was like 10yrs old then and had no intention of doing that and he felt like I wanted to scam him that ₹100. I took back that note and gave him the money I owed him. I know I committed a mistake but the way he forgot about how i returned him money multiple times and only remembers my mistake tells me how flawed we humans are and we give attention to people’s mistakes way more than to their good deeds.

Now I know this isn’t that big a deal and I should get over it but this thing always stays with me because I’ve always been honest with everyone but the way he accused me of stealing after such a long relationship and I couldn’t do anything to save my honour. All I did was that I never got back to his dairy and I wish someday he realises what he did.