SOURCE: Reddit - r/Ranchi
CITY: Ranchi
TITLE: TW:Physical Assault and Rape
AUTHOR: Low_Relationship9867
DATE: 2024-02-03
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/ranchi/comments/1ahw3ue/twphysical_assault_and_rape/
--- POST TEXT ---

This happened with my childhood friend.

Abuser- A My friend- F

All of this started in std 12th during oct-nov A(20m real age) and F(19f) came in relationship. A was a sweet talker and even used to manipulate me into giving details about F. After few weeks into the relationship, A started pressurizing her for physical relationship which she was reluctant for, after blackmailing her that he will tell her parents who are very orthodox about their relationship he became physical with her and made her video without her consent. This asshole used that video for raping her again and again. A also used to beat her regularly whenever they had fights. He used to slutshame her. 

One day when she ran away somewhere after he raised hands on her. They broke up. But after few months in Dec he again started calling her and blackmailing her. On this Jan 6 in morning she went put due to some work after finding her alone he threatened her to go to a secluded place and physically assaulted her with rod, he was gonna smash her head with rock but locals stopped him after which he fled. Locals called girl's parents and she was hospitalised but this asshole came to hospital to again attack her. The guy is now in remand home.

He used to behave extra nicely with everyone to put a facade. Even I never suspected him that he could be a criminal when I got to know about the initial behaviour about him being toxic and controlling. He is also a druggie. 

Unfortunately, my friend's life is not the same, her father even suggested to marry her off. After revolts from her elder sister he let her continue education but she's still not able to get her freedom back. The psychological trauma and the physical and emotional pain she's gone through can't be put into words. 

Shockingly, when the head constable came to take her statement a d she narrated about the blackmail and Rape incident lady constable chose to not write that part as "ladki ki izzat chali jayegi". 
Like who has kept the family's honour in a girl's vagina. Is it always the women who has to take care of the culture and honour of family.