SOURCE: Reddit - r/Hyderabad
CITY: Hyderabad
TITLE: Almost got saved from being scammed today! Avvaldesk anyone?
AUTHOR: MokilaModel
DATE: 2024-05-05
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1ckxrs8/almost_got_saved_from_being_scammed_today/
--- POST TEXT ---

Maybe my story can help you or your parents!

My Airtel SIM had some issues today so I was searching online for ways to contact Airtel. First solution was call 121 but it was a horrible experience. You go through tons of static responses and never get a resolution.

So I googled for way to contact them and was calling airtel numbers one by one. Everything was going to automated voice calls so I gave up. I raised a ticket in mail instead.

Suddenly I got a call back and someone said, you called us about your Airtel issue, and I was dumb enough to believe it. They were giving stupid explanations like I didn’t recharge, it got cancelled, I’ll get a refund and I need to repay again, etc.

They said open AppStore, and search refund Avvaldesk. I thought maybe they will ask me to install Airtel app. But as I searched it, I didn’t get any results and instead showed Anydesk. 

I immediately understood that this is a scam call. Because if it was from airtel they would be asking to put refund request from their app. Not anydesk. I told him I use iPhone and don’t have avvaldesk so he said do you have phone pe or google pay, I just wasted their time for 5 mins and scolded him and cut the call later.

I googled and found that Avvaldesk is a common scam. I traced back my call history and one of the numbers I called was not airtels number. Instead it cuts quickly. So thats how they got my number. They mush have created a fake airtel website and put their number in between real airtel numbers to seem authentic.

This reminds me of another scam I encountered recently. If any business is newly opened, there is an option to call, it’s mostly a scam. I called a bakery nearby to ask if they were open yet. I got this number from google. The guy said they aren’t open but they are delivering food directly to home instead till it’s open. He told me to send order on WhatsApp and I did. He also sent a photo of menu. When I sent my order the amount he quoted was much less that what usually costs in that bakery. So I got suspicious and asked him payment mode. He said no COD, pay in gpay etc…immediately blocked. He mush have fed google his number for the bakery and google accepted it. So he is scamming people who call that company.

Be careful folks! Btw I thought of posting that scammers number here, but idk if it’s allowed to post that scammers number here or not, so I won’t post it without mods approval.