SOURCE: Reddit - r/Ahmedabad
CITY: Ahmedabad
TITLE: Fraud alert ‼️
AUTHOR: Introvert_insaan_
DATE: 2024-07-21
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/ahmedabad/comments/1e8g2sg/fraud_alert/
--- POST TEXT ---

Beware of this company called YatraDham. It’s based on accommodation of dharmsala all over India. Also pooja, chardham yatra packages etc. facilities available. But the main thing is company doing fraud with customer and employee. My experience as a employee was worse. You can also check reviews on Google, play store and app store. Most reviews are negative and positive reviews are of their company employees’. Only few 1-2% people’s experience are good other customer’s reviews is worst or else they don’t want to give review. Let me explain.

 1. With Employee: I joined this company for about a month and over 3-4 days. Firstly for the interview main HR was not present so assistant HR took my interview and allotted me for 2 day’s trial. After the trial a got selected and everything was decided (unofficial, without a single paperwork). She told me the shift timings and I chose 9 to 5 shift time. And salary will be 9000 (I still remember her voice her tone her way of talking everything) and after 2 days When I told her the time she refused and said it’s 6* (9 to 6). But I agreed and joined(June). Then the main HR arrives in company and I went in their office to talk about this confusion. She said I told 9 to 6 shift time only. They said all employees time is 9 hours and if she said time of 8 hours it will not include break of 40 minutes(sharp). They blamed me saying misunderstandings in my hearing. After some days the assistant HR left the job and new assistant HR was assigned. After some days I got my first salary (3 days late) but it was 1000 rupees less. So I informed HR next day and he said it can’t be possible because your salary was decided 8k not 9k. I was shocked told many times that she clearly said 9000. But he was not ready to listen and also not letting me talk properly he was interrupting and talking about company policies. After that, I was tired of their fraud system and fraud peoples, and for some family emergency I had to left the job. HR said I will talk to her and let you know about your salary and I will check your attendance for this month(July) and will make payment accordingly. About 10 days passed but no response. So I decided to contact them and calling for 3 days consistently his new HR assistant telling me that sir is in meeting I will talk with him and let you know. But no updates. After 3 days I said I’ll be coming to your office tomorrow and she said agreed. After talking with HR he clearly denied to make my pending payments giving arguments about their company policies. He also called his old assistant HR who took my interview, put the call in speaker and both just lied in front of me. I tried hard to convince him but he was not listening and blaming only me say i had misunderstanding in hearing things. He said he has a meeting and he is in hurry. I don’t have any proof so I can’t do anything. 

 2. With Customer: When you book a room in any website or app it gets confirmed but that is not the case here. When you book room in any place your booking will reflect on their database in 24 hours. After that one of their department have to call manager and tell all the details of customer like check in-out date, how many days, which room, etc. if room is available then there is no issue booking will be confirmed but if not available(in most cases) then the department have to adjust the customer from one to another place. They call you telling your booking is not available but in other place room available. And you have to adjust there after paying difference amount or refunding the difference amount. At the time of booking the payment comes to company at right time but when refunding from company side refund will take 7 to 10 banking days to reflect no matter how much your amount is. And trust me all the properties in this website looks good in pictures but it is very bad in reality also service is very bad most of the time. Also the prices of dharmsala and hotels are very high compared to other booking platforms and convenience fee is charged very higher in every booking compulsory
Please don’t do any kind of booking from this company and also don’t go there for joining. Aware your close ones, your friends, your family about this fraud company. They are just doing fraud in name of god and public service.