SOURCE: Reddit - r/Mumbai
CITY: Mumbai
TITLE: Mumbai Experience for a Bengaluru person
AUTHOR: Desperate_Safe2434
DATE: 2022-08-14
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/mumbai/comments/wo70vf/mumbai_experience_for_a_bengaluru_person/
--- POST TEXT ---

I have lived most of my life in Bengaluru and got a chance to experience the Mumbai life for 5 days last week. Here is my first hand experience of Mumbai vs Bengaluru.
1. Public transport: Hands down, Mumbai is way ahead. I was simply amazed by how fast and cheaply I could travel from one end of the city to other. The autowalas and the kaali peeli guys are the best. Even though I knew no marathi and had a broken hindi, never did anyone try to scam me. Everyone charged on meter and a auto guy even gave me back an additional 10 I had given him intentionally. God bless these auto guys. Me being a localite, I usually am scared of boarding autos in Bengaluru for the fear of them scamming me. Locals and metros are so well connected, and the way they work simply left me in aww. 
The location of the airport, nothing needs to be said about this. I could take an auto from the airport. In Bangalore, I had to bargain with the driver and he almost asked me for my kidney to travel at night. 
Best busses, except for the new EVs, mostly were in bad conditions. BMTC has much better busses on an average.
2. Joey's pizza, Jimmy's burger : hands down the best pizza I have had till date. Jimmys was amazing too.
3. Vada pav : Huge let down in most places. The only one I loved was from Anand near mitibai. I had assumed vada pav would be good everywhere in Mumbai. Sadly , some sucked and were even worse than what we get In Bengaluru. 
4. Food scenes in general: felt Bangalore slightly tipped Mumbai for availability of all kinds of cusinies for all kind of people. Couldn't even find enough tea shops ( and literally no one sold non elaichi, non masala tea)
5. People: people were generally much nicer and were helpful. This isn't much different from Bengaluru , except for the tech corridor where you dont find a lot of native Bengalurians.
6. UPI / digital payment: I haven't withdrawn cash in the last 2 3 years in Bengaluru. Except for BMTC, everyone (including your local pan guy, roadside thela guy ) accepts UPI. In Mumbai, even some of the major stores would accept only cash. Not sure what is the reason for such bad digital adoption. 
7. Roads/Infra/cleanliness: both equally bad. 
8. Weather: was so unpredictable. Rained like it was going to wash the city out for 5 mins and sun beating down the next minute. Traffic came to a stand still when it rained just like in Bengaluru.