SOURCE: Reddit - r/Noida
CITY: Noida
TITLE: Fraud done by an online store which operates from Noida! Kindly help!
AUTHOR: humming-bird2323
DATE: 2024-12-15
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/noida/comments/1headn9/fraud_done_by_an_online_store_which_operates_from/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hey everyone! Beware of the store decorsmantra! Search decorsmantra noida and you will find their page. They are telling me to delete my review and only then they will refund my money!

I ordered a Buddha painting worth Rs. 5300 from one an online store called decormantra. The Google page says that they operate from Noida. 

Upon receiving the painting, I noticed that the painting frame is broken and chipped. The painting also had 3 vertical joints all over from top to bottom. Simply put, the product was of extremely inferior quality.

I requested for a return. The lady who I was speaking to on phone refused to believe that the painting has joints even after I shared the photos with her. She even kept trying to say that she will send me another painting but looking at how blinded she was, I simply refused.

On 30th November 2024, they received the painting back. I waited for 2 days and they didn't return my money back. I called them and she said that it will take 2 days. 

This cycle of me calling and then saying "shaam tak ho jayega" continued for days!

A week passed and I called again and she mentioned that she will deduct 30% as shopping charges. I was baffled as earlier that wasn't mentioned in their return page and they edited on that very day. I told them that it's surprising that she want to keep my 30% even when their product was of inferior quality. She kept justifying. I finally accepted defeat and asked her to go ahead and pay back my 70% She again mentioned that she will pay by evening.

That evening passed too and again..no refund! So I left a Google reviews on their page mentioning my experience. 

Now 2 days back, I called them again enquiring about my money and they mentioned that they will pay only if I delete the Google review, send them a screenshot and video of it..otherwise I won't get my payment back. I have the voice recording where she keeps saying that if you delete the Google reviews then you will receive your money within 5 minutes and if you don't delete, your payment will "take time."

Help me out! Any help would be amazing. Thanks! 

Attaching pictures of the damage and recording.