SOURCE: Reddit - r/Salem
CITY: Salem
TITLE: Don't go to "Free Loaders Tavern"
AUTHOR: JonasAlbert84
DATE: 2021-03-03
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/SALEM/comments/lwjj1w/dont_go_to_free_loaders_tavern/
--- POST TEXT ---

On Monday, March 1st my family and I ordered food to go from The Free Loader. We got the 4 piece fried chicken, listed as $6.75, the Beer Battered Halibut listed as 7.50 and the chicken strips for 5.75. So $20 total. The bar tender who took the order was very short with my wife over the phone. I went in to pick up the food and pay and was told the order $41. I was surprised by this and when I returned to the car asked my wife if she had changed the order at all because it was way more than it should have been. She said no so I headed back inside and told the bar tender I thought I might have been over charged. She then told me the fried chicken was $10 and some change and that the fish was 17.50! This is on top of a ridiculous $6 “to go fee”. I told and showed her that online the prices were listed as what I said above. I asked if I could return the fish because had my wife known it was 17.50 she wouldn’t have ordered it. The bar tender refused, saying they aren’t responsible for what is listed on sites like Grubhub. She said I should have checked their Facebook page (I have since done so and no menu is even listed). So I returned to my car to update my wife on the situation. From the car I called them back and asked to speak to the owner and was told the owner would tell me the same thing. Only after I said I’d have no choice but to call the Better Business Bureau did the bar tender agree to give us back the difference. The bar tender kept accusing my wife of secretly working for Grubhub and had my wife go into the back room after taking her phone and coerced her to sign “something” stating she would not call the BBB in order to receive the partial refund. Today, Tuesday, March 2nd we have received three voice messages from the bartender, Candy calling us “frauds” and “cheats” and saying “they are on to us and we will be in trouble soon.” Be careful calling this place since they are using their caller ID to call back and leave harassing voice messages with short/petty voice mails saying things as stated above. Yes, it is covid and times are hard for many people, but you do not run a business like this and definitely do not harass customers like this.