SOURCE: Reddit - r/Ahmedabad
CITY: Ahmedabad
TITLE: Scam Alert. Never trust ANYONE on the streets!!!
AUTHOR: triplecena1
DATE: 2023-11-04
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/ahmedabad/comments/17n53gx/scam_alert_never_trust_anyone_on_the_streets/
--- POST TEXT ---

Disclaimer: Not a big scam. Just lost 50 rs. to a 'begger'!! 

 A couple of months ago, I (am from south Gujarat) was visiting a friend in Ahmedabad. I was roaming around Maninagar station just like that. A guy came to me and said he would polish my shoe for free. I said: "nahi karvana hai bhai" and kept on walking. He said he is not a begger and just wanted to do it for free. I could sense that he is lying so I kept on walking. He kept on following and pleading me. I had time so I was like so chalo timepass karte hai. I said: "Thik hai bhai shoe polish kar le". He opened his box and started dusting off my shoes and started telling me his bullshit that he is from a village and came here to earn and lost all money. I could see that he is not at all experienced polishing shoes and was about to ruin my shoes. So I told him to stop and offered him 20 rs. He said he is not doing this for money and he had some self-respect. I said you cleaned my shoes and I cannot go without paying you. He continued his 'self-respect' BS and then finally said, "If you really want to help me buy me a shoe-polish kit worth 600 rs so that he can stop begging and start earning" I said "20 rs le aur nikal". Then he said he didn't want money so I said "OK, as your wish" and left. 

I noticed that he was following me. I stopped at a some fast-food corner to pack some food. He kept on roaming around the store. I didn't want him to know where I was staying so after leaving the store, I took a diversion and he was still following me keeping some distance. I entered a nearby grocery store to have some cold drink. Same story again, he kept safe distance but made sure to have me in her vision. Finally I confronted him and asked "why are you following me?" He played uno-reverse card and said I was following him. and then added "Buy me 5 kg rice and some oil so he can feed his family". I said "I cannot afford that much money and if you needed money why didn't you take in the first place?" and then again offered him 20 rs. He said, "20 rs me kon jute polish karta hai? mujhe 600 rs de" I was losing patience but wasn't sure if it was safe to get aggressive knowing that I was a visitor and don't know their tactics or if his gang is also somewhere around. I said "keep this 50 rs" put a note on nearby bike and left. He was shouting behind and cursing and sayin "it washim being good that he let it go for 50 rs" and all. I made sure that he is not following and me and then walked back to my hotel. 

I am writing all this cause that was some new scam tactic for me and hope this could save someone's hard earned money and also I don't have anything to while typing this and ungh pan nathi aavti.