SOURCE: Reddit - r/Jaipur
CITY: Jaipur
TITLE: Rajasthan Police सदैव आपकी सेवा में
AUTHOR: fuckthapolicemf
DATE: 2024-06-19
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/jaipur/comments/1djm73i/rajasthan_police_सदव_आपक_सव_म/
--- POST TEXT ---

Today, I went for to a theka and took my drink to the place right beside it, thinking I’ll just drink it and be on my way. Whilst having the second peg, the police comes in, kicks the first guy, that was my signal to leave, I stood up and he came and slapped me, as I was in the wrong place, I went outside. While I was taking my bike out, I asked for his name and mentioned, “sir aap vardi mai hai toh aise maariye toh mat, itne laws toh humein bhi aate hai” the guy besides him lost it who was not in the uniform btw, came straight for my collar, then other guy and there were three to four policemen, more than half were without uniform started to snatch my ghamcha while completely choking me through it and slapping me asked me to get into the van, I said what’ve I done wrong, there’s absolutely no reason, but they continued doing so and after awhile I gave up and said fine let’s go, then the guy says,”aaj tujhe kanoon sikhata hu” threw me into the van zabardasti karte hue. Now, the fun starts, as soon as I entered the police station, and let me tell you, till now I’m not arrested or anything and neither any section has been imposed on me, the police brings out the thick belt, starts to hit the shit of my palms and asking them to keep them straight, then he asked me to remove my socks and shoes and did the same with my soles, while I was grievously hurt, I was begging them to stop, then they hurled abuses at me and my family, asked me to stand up and made me remove my clothes forcibly and asked me to lay on the ground when I refused they slapped me altogether, I was put on the ground, buri tarike se gaand todi, then they put me in the lock up without clothes and still there was no case registered I was held a detainee or you can say kidnapped in a fucking police station in my own city. I was begging for mercy, and whole police station full of officers were abusing me and making fun of my appearance. They asked me to keep quiet or they would register a fake case against me, they altered my breathalyser results and made me sign on them, then they seized my motorcycle which I didn’t ride after drinking saying that they caught me in a check post driving drunk. Then they harassed me into signing god knows what papers, I asked for my lawyer, my family members but the beating continued and said aaj raat ko yahi rakhenge aur puri raat todenge mc tujhe. After numerous hours of begging they called my father, informing him that I was beating the officers while I was drunk. Somehow, all of this ended. I was given my clothes and let out of the lock up before my father reached so that he couldn’t see me like that. All my face, neck, soles, palms and buttocks are badly bruised, I have taken pictures. But I cannot do anything because they threatened me that they now have my address and will kill me if I did something, and put my family members in jail. It’s been a few hours and I’m not at all in the condition to how to understand all of this? Just because I pointed out one wrongdoing, I was given hell. Thank you Rajasthan Police, my trust and faith in your department has immensely increased.