SOURCE: Reddit - r/Mumbai
CITY: Mumbai
TITLE: Tinder story 2
AUTHOR: Grouchy_Ostrich_6255
DATE: 2022-11-02
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/mumbai/comments/yk25o5/tinder_story_2/
--- POST TEXT ---

Many of you must have seen my yesterday story. And I promised I will share my other story.. So here it is... 
I think this is new scam or new ideas, whatever 

So , I match with this girl on tinder last month in October. She text me "Hi " around 1am but I didnt check my message. 
Next morning I saw the message and I replied her Hi, sorry I didnt saw your text last night.. 
Then we started talking like normal 
Let me tell you she don't have profile pic, that was the first 🚩 . She said I like your profile and interested to know you.. 
I asked direct what you looking for here? She said am here just to make friends and meet-up, hangout and let's see how it goes.. I was like OK not bad.. Am here looking for same.. 
We moved on whatsapp within few minutes.. 
But again she don't have profile pic and she said don't call me or video call.. This was 2nd 🚩
I knew something is wrong but I wanted to see where it goes.. 
Now, within 2 hour around 2pm.. She asked me what you doing today? Are you free? I said yes am free because it's Sunday am at home and doing nothing.. 
She asked let's meet for coffee.. I was thinking wow, it's going to fast.. This is not India for sure and am not Tom Cruise or Brad Pitt.. 
She said I stay at Virar and I am from XYZ place. 
So she said let's meet at Thane Vivian Mall, so it will be better for both of us to travel.. 
I said yes it's perfect for both, sound like a plan. 

She said let's meet at 5pm , I said done 👍 I will be there.. 
Now, she said I will come from virar to thane by uber or ola.. Can you pay for me? I said am coming from train and you can come by train too, it's fast and convenient.. Right? 
She said no, if you want to meet me first send me taxi money then only I will come.. And don't worry I am beautiful.. 
So, I used my brain and understood it's a scam and maybe it's guy... 
I asked first come on video call and am not so desperate to meet a girl whom I have to pay first.. 
She quickly blocked me and disappeared. 
This is true incident guys. Just sharing.. Does anyone had similar incident???