SOURCE: Reddit - r/Pune
CITY: Pune
TITLE: Rapido Cab scam
AUTHOR: nats_obs99
DATE: 2025-04-25
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/pune/comments/1k7dyjo/rapido_cab_scam/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hi all,
This incident happened with me on 20th April Sunday, when I was going to my hometown in the morning, needed to go to Pune Railway station from the society where I live in.

So I booked a rapido cab, in the app the fare was showing ₹275. We reached the station and you guys might know there is usually rush, and also our train was reaching in next 10 minutes. So my friend saw in the driver's phone screen it was showing ₹421 (writing 421 because sub rules not allowing to write that number, actual amount in the screenshot). She asked me if the fare went up to 421?. I said no, then I asked the driver how much should I pay. He said ₹421. I said but in the app it is not updated it is still showing ₹275. He then started that frank smiling and said- "you don't know? Cabs are now running on meters like autos. And this new fare is from my meter reading." I asked like when did this happen I am not aware, then he said it happened 2 days ago only, you didn't book any cab in the past 2 days may be that's why you don't know, and then he proceeded to show me a photo of a news paper article with the heading suggesting that cabs are also running on meters now. I was aware that Uber autos are now on meters but I thought to myself that the cabs are also running on meters now. But still I could smell that it is definitely a scam otherwise there should be some note or something in the Rapid app regarding this. Anyway our train was approaching so I didn't meddled much and paid him ₹421 and said to him that this is wrong.

In the train I immediately posted a complaint in the Rapido app, they asked for the payment screenshot and yesterday only they provided me the refund amount of what I paid over ₹275. They said that there isn't any decision from their side to let cabs run on meters and told me to tap on the "Get help" option in the app if you ever run into this situation again.

Attaching ride and payment references for proof.