SOURCE: Reddit - r/Ahmedabad
CITY: Ahmedabad
TITLE: UPDATE TO MY LAST POST I GOT MY MONEY BACKKKK
AUTHOR: janvi2212
DATE: 2024-01-21
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/ahmedabad/comments/19bn0dr/update_to_my_last_post_i_got_my_money_backkkk/
--- POST TEXT ---

So, I had met a guy named Yash Bulchandani aka Yash Arora aka the ass**** on Tinder as most of you might have already guessed. He stole my cards and withdrew my money around 4lakh. This happened on 9th Dec 2023 turn to 40 days later on 19th Jan 2024 we caught him. I really have to thank everybody here to help me with all his info that I couldn't have come across if it wasn't through Reddit so Thankss so so much. Coming to how he got caught. Well As I had mentioned before, I had complained to the police. And they were not ready to file an FIR because their assumption was I wouldn't get my money back if I did so, Doesn't matter as they were anyways not Interested in looking for the guy. So I took Matter in my own hands. Thanks to reddit, I got connected to the girls who he had scammed before and after me. Through which I could learn his pattern and get closer to getting him caught. I created a fake tinder profile with my sister's Pictures and wrote a bio and relevant details that might help push my profile towards his. Thankfully enough the cards were in my favor and His d****** created a tinder profile with the same pictures and same bio. He had used before to scam another girl after me on 31st December(im Mumbai). Mind you he also used The very same phone number he used with that previous scam of his. I had known that he is in ahmedabad through Sources, Which led to me swiping left on every guy till I could find him on tinder. Fortunately enough I found his profile and it was a match. My sister started talking to him. Texting him voice calling him so that he doesn't get suspicious. On the night of 19th December around 1 AM he decided it would be okay for them to meet. We gave him a fake address to come to and he did come. My boss who was helping me through this Scenario had already called the police. he tried to run away but police did eventually catch him. He was taken to the police station. We were there till 3:30 in the morning he confessed to everything and the next day, Police asked me to come file an FIR. When I reached the police station. I found out he wanted to Settle and he begged me not to file a case against him. Cause he already has four FIRs against him. He wanted to settle and give me all my money that he took back. Police suggested that even if I follow through with the FIR, it is a lengthy process and he can still get A bail in no time. Rather Then losing my money and him not serving justifiable sentence. I went through with the settlement. The most shocking part is he did not feel any remorse. I knew his sorries meant nothing and my speculation is. His moment is involved too with his scams. As she tried her level best to act innocent and be the victim herself. But she remembered every name of the girl he had scammed before. In conclusion, I am very sure this guy will still be out there. Scamming other girls, My boss suggested to create social media profiles and profiles on all dating apps. With his pictures and a bio saying he's a scammer and for girls to be aware. That's what I will do. And I asked him how he got my pin and the speculation was right. He had seen me using my pin for online transactions and he had remembered it. I again want to thank everybody on Reddit. To have helped me with this, thank you. I'm so glad I have gotten my hard earned money back.