SOURCE: Reddit - r/Gurgaon
CITY: Gurgaon
TITLE: New Scammers....... 
AUTHOR: Practical-Lab-4082
DATE: 2024-06-21
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/gurgaon/comments/1dl4g0h/new_scammers/
--- POST TEXT ---

I wanted to give you a heads up about what happened to me this morning. I was added to a WhatsApp group called 'Life Community L90' by a random girl, who is actually a man.

She introduced herself as HR KAVYA DATTA, The HR of that discussion group. They are offering full-time and part-time jobs in that group that would be of interest to us. To increase the visibility and exposure to Indian hotels, restaurants, and other establishments on Google Maps and YouTube.

Proceeding, she also mentioned that their organization works as a promotion company and receives commissions from owners of restaurants and hotels. Their goal is to improve their ranking, which is why they are employing applicants through the internet.

To help us grasp the work flow, we will be given three tasks to complete. Upon completion of each assignment, we will receive 150 rupees right away. To rate and review the hotel or restaurant, simply go to their Google Maps or YouTube page. 

Simply rate them with five stars. and we can earn between INR 500 and INR 2000 per day from this work if we provide a screenshot and summary to the WhatsApp number she provided in the group.

I'm not sure whether I can write those contact numbers here, but if it's okay, please let me know. whether not, please let me know, and I'd be happy to list all of the phone numbers in the comment section. 

THE SCAM ASPECT, HOWEVER, STARTS HERE: - TO GET PAID, WE HAVE TO GIVE THEM OUR UPI INFORMATION / BANK DETAILS AFTER FINISHING THE TASK.

I noticed the fraud element, so I confronted another group member via private WhatsApp conversation. He informed me that, although he provided them his UPI ID, they later sent him a Telegram link, which they asked him to open. He said he was afraid to give them the UPI number or bank credentials first. 

I warned him about clicking that link since it is a fraud and I made personal remarks about that group and mistreated them.

Subsequently, a lot of people claim that they are sending a different link that needs to be clicked in order to get paid, and the admin deleted me from that group. 

Then I sent him a personal message, and he mistreated me and blocked me from that account as well. (Screenshot attached)

So, I have some question for all of you:

1)How do these con artists have the courage to start a WhatsApp group like this?

2) For what does cyber security stand?

3) How can they be eliminated?

4) How to protect teenagers from these individuals? since it's simple to manipulate them.

5) Is this due to unemployment or is there another quick way to make money?

Sorry I know it’s a long read.