SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: EWS quota nursery admissions scam - what happenned to that case?
AUTHOR: jaibajrangbaliji
DATE: 2022-03-08
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/t9b1el/ews_quota_nursery_admissions_scam_what_happenned/
--- POST TEXT ---

Recently I had posted about nursery admissions and fake birth certificates fraud by principal of Springdales School Pusa Road in connivance with doctors of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital Delhi. There is another big admissions scam which was in the news around 2015 but now has been cleverly put in a thanda basta.

In 2015 it was widely reported in the media that several private schools in Delhi which are required to give 25% seats to children from EWS families were illegally giving admissions in large numbers to children from very rich families under that quota. There was an organized racket with several brokers and school management including Principals involved. FIR bearing number 41/15 was registered by crime branch of Rohini North jurisdiction.

Investigation revealed that this scam was operating on a large scale. Many rich family children were given admission in the EWS quota by creating fake IDs, residence proofs, EWS certificates etc. In one case of Bal Bharati School Pitampura it was found that a child who had been given admission under the EWS quota was actually coming to school in the luxury car namely Jaguar.

This was a racket operating across many school in Delhi but in particular the Principal of Bal Bharti School Pitampura namely Mrs. Meenu Goswami was found to deeply involved. Police investigation found that she was having frequent calls with the kingpin of this racket. There were hundreds of call and sms exchange between Mrs. Goswami and the kingpin. Her office was raided and phone record seized. Police found that they were discussing children in those messages as if children are fruits and vegetables being sold in a subzi mandi.

A chargesheet was filed against this FIR 41/15 in the Court of Ld. CMM Rohini North - Shri Ashish Aggarwal at that time. Only the brokers were named as accused and charged in that chargesheet. The Ld. CMM was very upset to see that the school Principal of Bal Bharti School Pitampura Mrs Meenu Goswami had not been charged despite compelling evidence against her. He added her name to list of accused. He also made several parents who had gotten their children fraudulently admitted as accused parties. There were over hundred such parents.

Hundreds of accused were summoned and they all started applying for bail. The Ld. CMM did not grant them bail looking at the gravity of the offence. He passed adverse comments against the IO and the crime branch for the loose manner in which they had investigated. He passed adverse remark against Mrs. Meenu Goswami for her conduct after going through her conversation with the kingpin. One doctor who had given a false medical certificate to get one EWS seat vacated by a child from a poor family was also summoned and castigated.

The accused approached the Sessions Court and High Court for bail, and were generally successful. Mrs. Meenu Goswami's lawyer used his tricks to get the Ld. ASJ to pass an order which directed the CMM to consider her bail application and in case he declines it then still not arrest her and give her an opportunity to re approach a higher forum. This order gave the accused unlimited time to approach a higher forum of her choice. The Ld. CMM was completely stumped at this order as the Ld. ASJ had effectively granted bail to Mrs. Goswami without explicitly granting bail. So the Ld. CMM was constrained to grant her bail.

The case proceeded and some other Principals were also summoned. The directorate of education was also asked to give a statement and when it said that it was not its responsibility to oversee admission process under EWS the judge was furious. The judge directed that a comprehensive audit be done on all admissions in the recent years to find which all were done through fraud. But the schools and the directorate never did anything. The police was also very slow in the investigation and there were allegations by the school that many top police officials were calling them to grant admissions to the children of their friends.

After a few months the case was suddenly transferred from the court of Ld. CMM to Ld. ACMM. This is very irregular on two counts. First - all crime branch cases are in the CMM roster. Secondly - there is no order which directs this transfer or even records a reason. There is no entry for transfer in the online record of ecourts website.

After this transfer the case has been stalled and nothing has happenned. All the children who had been found to have been given admission fraudulently are still studying and Mrs. Meenu Goswami has continued as the Principal. No news report has been published in this case after 2015. So it has been put in a thanda basta.

The eCourts website record shows that in March 2021 a process of plea bargain had been initiated perhaps with an intent to close this case. However the Ld. ACMM later realized that plea bargain is not allowed in such a case as per Cr.P.C. because some of the offences carry a punishment of more than 7 years. So he had to stop the process midway.