SOURCE: Reddit - r/Mumbai
CITY: Mumbai
TITLE: Real estate township projects are the biggest scam going unnoticed
AUTHOR: Ordellrebello
DATE: 2023-04-26
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/mumbai/comments/12zh9a4/real_estate_township_projects_are_the_biggest/
--- POST TEXT ---

Well, real estate itself is a big scam in India as it has no transparency and is overpriced. But here I would be talking about township projects in city outskirts which can actually gulp the entire life savings of a middle-class man.

I recently been to Hiranandani fortune city which is located in panvel outskirts and was shocked to see that .

1) There are atleast 10-12 huge 30-40 floors building constructed in the middle of a village with no basic infrastructure. One grocery ,milk shop don't make an area livable. 

2) Most of them are sold out, a large part of them is sold to NRI investors while others got trapped due to Hiranandani brand.

3) The occupancy is not even 10 percentage in all these buildings.

4)NRI people who bought these flats didn't even came here to check how the area looks like , they just bought on future prospects , 4k Videos by their sales team and shiny sales offices which are in Dubai, US, UK etc.

Well, it's not about one project almost all township projects which i have been to (Palava, Runwal my city , Marathon nexzone, Wadhwa etc. )are a huge failure where neither investors earn anything, they can't even live there due to lack of basic facilities, lack of public transport etc., also due to huge oversupply of new flats in vicinity they can't even sell their flat.

Adding more woes till the township projects builds fully, that whole area is still under the control of the developer who

1) Charges maintenance at his whims 

2) Forcefully trap the buyer to pay clubhouse charges while in reality the club house will come much latter

3) The whole area would be in under construction phase for decades .

4) They are also overpriced to an extent that the builder is selling the flat to new buyer at a price which was the same 5 years ago.

5) If somehow you found a bakra who is ready to buy your flat at discounted rate, you will shock to know that the builder will charge you NOC which can go as high as 10 lakhs.

6)Most of them are in gram panchayat area thus out of bounds of municipal corporation

7) Most services are monopolised to an extent that you always end up paying more for eg . My cousin pays 20000/ yearly for bus transportation for his kid while the ongoing rates are in the range of 10-15k. Internet services are monopolised by local cable operators who are usually goons.

8)Due to no market in the vicinity, most of the time of families is spent at clubhouse and society garden.

This is not limited to Mumbai, My colleagues who have bought flats in NCR and Bangalore also face the same problem. It is a dilemma for the investor as they think if they badmouth their project on social media platforms, they won't be able to sell their unit .

It doesn't even stop here, many big real estate companies have gone bankrupt due to their township projects which didn't ended well.

Edit : Many here are comparing this with Powai and Thane.
It is basic common sense that Powai location itself was in heart of suburbs, while this location is in panvel outskirts and is a total village . If someone gets 60 acres land in Mankhurd it will be easier to develop it as even though remote it is in city limits.
For fortune city, Even NMIA is not going to change anything. It will take actually 5-6 decades for this area to even come close to Nerul or other developed nodes of navi mumbai.