SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kochi
CITY: Kochi
TITLE: Thank you, Kochi for showing us that good people still exist
AUTHOR: featheringtonne
DATE: 2024-08-08
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kochi/comments/1en20py/thank_you_kochi_for_showing_us_that_good_people/
--- POST TEXT ---

My husband and I visited Kochi for the first time towards the end of July. We initially planned to stay for a few days before heading back to Chennai and then back home to Singapore, but we ended up spending 10 days (more than half our trip) in Kochi because we loved it so much!

It was our first visit to Kerala and we were both really amazed at just how nice people are. For me, I've only been to Chennai and other parts of Tamil Nadu about 10 times in my life, but never ventured out. 

This trip to Kochi has made us want to plan another trip in December because we loved it so much. 

Here are a few things I found to be unique in Kochi, that I don't experience in Chennai:

1. People smile - a lot. 

So there's this "Indian-indian" thing I've noticed both in Chennai and back home in Singapore where Indians lock eyes with each other as a way to suss each other out and then quickly look away. But in Kochi, when this exchange took place, the eye contact quickly turned into a very warm smile. I don't know if it's the high literacy rates in Kerala, but I felt that there was so more shared respect and a sense of community in Kochi. People seemed happier and more open to connect with strangers. 

2. I didn't feel sexualised 

It's quite common for me to feel sexualised in Tamil Nadu. I always dress conservatively (saree, mostly, or salwar kameez with scarf) but I often see men not being very respectful in the way that they look at me. In Kochi, I felt safe and I didn't feel sexualised. It seemed all the men I encountered would look me in the eye, and some would even smile, but it felt wholesome. Their eyes don't linger or try to catch a "quick sneak peak" elsewhere. When my husband was ill on one of the evenings, I had to step out to run some errands. Felt really safe. Correct me if I'm wrong, but I think being a sexually liberated society (as opposed to being sexually oppressed, like in Tamil Nadu) actually makes the town safer for women because people have healthy outlets to work through their desires rather than sexualising innocent people on the streets. 

3. Self driving was actually not that bad

I've seen many posts on this subreddit complaining about how some people drive in Kochi, but compared to the erratic and impatient driving behaviour in Chennai, we felt that Kochi drivers were actually far more patient and respectful on the road. There wasn't as much honking on the road compared to Chennai, and we spent a good 6 days self driving in Kochi, from Chottanikara to Fort Kochi and back. 

4. Locals are not out to scam tourists

This was really surprising to me. So back in Chennai, when we flag an auto, they minimally ask for at least 50 Rs. more than the stipulated fare on Ola/Uber. Yesterday, Uber quoted a ride for Rs. 200, and an auto driver asked for Rs. 700. Obviously we didn't take his auto, but that's just how ridiculous the level of greed and desire to scam tourists is in Chennai. In Kochi, say we take a ride for Rs. 60, and we give the driver Rs. 100 (not expecting change), they usually rummage through their pockets to return us the change. Once, Uber quoted as Rs. 60 for a ride, but when we flagged a running auto, the guy asked for Rs. 50. We still paid Rs. 100, but it was amazing to us how people are not out to "gotcha" tourists or trick people. 

5. Straight lines of communication 

Another thing I noticed is that people in Kochi communicate very directly. Yes means yes, no means no. Sometimes in other towns/states/cities, no doesn't actually mean no, you just have to pay them an amount that would make them happy enough to say yes. In Kochi, we appreciated that people were direct and followed rules rather than self interest/money. This also applied to us - if someone approached us on the street, say an auto driver, and we said, "no" then they're not going to force us. 

6. There's no temple like Chottanikara Bhagabathy Amman Temple 

As I mentioned above, we visited Chottanikara Bhagavathy Amman temple about 6 times throughout our trip. The temple made me so happy. First of all, no one there was out to scam tourists. This isn't even a temple that panders to tourists. Most temples in India, at least the famous ones, are always out to get tourists. Once we got scammed Rs. 4000 at Rameswaram by this man. I still wish I could go back in time and tell him off. 

But in this temple, the Amman sanctum is open for anyone to enter, and as many times as they'd like, and no one's charging an entrance fee or any exorbitant amount for "special prayers." Anyone can witness Amman's early morning abishegam, anyone can witness the guruthi pooja and get the blessings. I was really happy to see that such temples - temples that are not tainted by the greed of the management or priests still exist in India today. 

People say that Kerala is God's own country, and I didn't understand it at first, but I think I do now, and I am more excited to explore other parts of Kerala when we return in December! Open to suggestions!