SOURCE: Reddit - r/Hyderabad
CITY: Hyderabad
TITLE: Got scammed twice using Ola Cab services in Hyderabad ? 
AUTHOR: aganj24
DATE: 2024-09-27
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/1fq5qxn/got_scammed_twice_using_ola_cab_services_in/
--- POST TEXT ---

I booked ola from airport to gachibowli on 31st Aug 2024 and mode of payment i kept was ola money. The Fare it showed was Rs 752. After reaching midway driver asked me how i am going to pay and i said ola money. He asked me to change it to cash but when i tried it was not changing. Then suddenly he ended the trip and I was charged Rs 641 through ola money. I told him since total amount was Rs 752 and Rs 641 already got deducted through ola money , I will pay the remaining balance. He said he only received Rs 252 and not Rs 641 and showed me some ola partner app. On reaching he was adamant that he only received Rs 252 and took Rs 500 more from me. So in all , Rs 752 was total fare but I paid him Ola Money ( 641) + Cash (500) which totals to Rs 1141. 

Second incident happened on 26th Sept 2024 where I wanted to go to Preston Mall , Gachibowli which is nearby. This time I opted for phonepe as mode of payment and fare was Rs 105. While on the way driver asked me that if my mode of payment is UPI to which I said yes. He requested to me that his wife is pregnant and she needs to get some test done. He wants Rs 1800 so if I could help him. I was very hesitant first but he said the test is necessary else he would not have asked. I sent him the money since he said he would return them by evening. After few mins he said he needs Rs 550 more as test is costly and he would return total money by evening. 
He asked me to send the money to his wife. I have her number. On sending the money her banking name was also visible. 
Just for precaution I asked his mobile number and called on it through my mobile just to be sure that if he does not give my money back as promised I can call him up and confront.

I tried calling his number and as I was afraid off the same thing happened as he was not picking up his phone. I tried later calling his wife number where a guy picked up saying he is her brother. I think that was the ola driver himself just posing as her brother.

The guy owes me Rs 2350 in total but I don't think he will be returning it back. I don't know what steps should I take next so that I get the money back.

I have driven through uber and rapido in Hyderabad but why is it that only scam I went through happen on ola only.