SOURCE: Reddit - r/Ahmedabad
CITY: Ahmedabad
TITLE: Listen to this brief conversation between scammers and victim and safeguard yourself from such fraudulent calls
AUTHOR: Head_Ad_8104
DATE: 2025-03-31
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/ahmedabad/comments/1jnzx61/listen_to_this_brief_conversation_between/
--- POST TEXT ---

Scammers have found a new yet appealing way to befool mobile number users. They fabricate a story to trap people. Sometimes, even educated people also get trapped because of fraudulent calls.

The whole scenario is like that a person receives a phone call on his mobile number. Some random lady voice on IVR speaks to him and told that all sim cards registered under his name are presently going to block after 2 hours. 

Also, he got an option to press 9 to know more. He immediately pressed the desired key and then another lady, this time a real one, appeared on a phone call and told him that, due to mass reporting from many people, all numbers under his name would be blocked. The reason for this, as told by her, was the sim card number which was being used to harass people over text messages, which is illegal. 

She spoke out a random 10-digit number and told him that the number belonged to him, the victim of the story. Upon hearing, the person told her that he was not involved in this matter at all and the number which she had uttered didn't belong to him. Someone might have stolen his personal credentials and done all this sort of thing.

"I am forwarding your call to the Andheri police department", muttered the lady.

She told him to tell them all this and get a clarification letter from them in order to prevent the immediate mobile number blocking. If they get convinced, they will send the clarification letter to the telecom regulatory authority. She further said, "The number which is the real and personal mobile number of you won't be blocked and only the number which I had spoken out earlier will be blocked"

After the call got transferred, a male voice shouted out loud," Mumbai Police ".

The whole scenario was told by the victim to that random man and after a long talk over mobile phone call the victim then had a 44-minute video call with him, the man in formal attire. 

He was somehow made to share his personal details like aadhar card ,mobile number , family member details etc. The person told him not to share this incident with anybody. He asked about his financial inventory and further told him that his bank account number was in link with some malpractices which are illegal.

The man said ,"Tell me the amount in your bank and send me a screenshot of the same ".

Then the victim told him that he rarely uses bank for transactions. He uses cash to buy groceries.

But when the scammers didn't agree with him, the victim said," I only use Paytm and that very rarely". He then sent him the screenshot of the account balance when the man demanded. The balance was not much. It was just 2 rupees.

Then the scammer seemed to be convinced by this and told him that he would receive a copy of the clarification letter at his address and dropped the video call.

After 1 hour, the victim hovered on YouTube and searched for "Telecom regulatory Authority of India calls for blocking sim card in 2 hours ".

He was astonished and tongue-tied to see a bunch of videos informing him about the fake scam call in the name of the Telecom regulatory authority of India. Then he realized that he had been victimized, and it was too late for him to do anything, because personal details along with the 44 minute-interactive one side face video call session were smoothly recorded and stored at their end. Unfortunately, the victim didn't capture the recording of the video call. The victim didn't suffer from financial loss, but his personal details are still with scammers. His face was visible to scammers throughout the 44 minute-long video session.

Thankfully the audio recording was on.

I'VE uploaded the video on my yt channel named AAGE HAMESHA. (type on yt search bar and apply filters by channel). You may listen to this brief conversation between scammers and victim and safeguard yourself from such fraudulent calls