SOURCE: Reddit - r/Hyderabad
CITY: Hyderabad
TITLE: Got scammed after an accident
AUTHOR: gautamk47
DATE: 2023-05-12
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/13f84fj/got_scammed_after_an_accident/
--- POST TEXT ---

So yesterday late night, i was driving home in my alto near chandanagar in this super narrow road. Have been driving for 6 years with zero incidents, but this Swift dzire in front of me braked too quick for me to react. Dashed into him, two men got out and i immediately apologised and said i would pay for the repairs. They forced me out of the car took me nearby where somehow the whole community showed up and supported them. One of them slapped me twice. Blackmailed me saying they would talk to my parents and I'm definitely not in a position where I wanted my parents involved. They asked me for 1 lakh to keep until the repairs happened. Ended up paying them 40k and they said today they would call me and i should get the repairs done. Would appreciate any advice, I'm considering going to the police to file a complaint.

Update:- Went to the police station. The head constable was actually helpful. The owner of the car called me up and one of the cops spoke to him and asked him to come to the PS. Turns out he's a video editor for MaaTV and threw his weight around a bit saying he's in the media and he can escalate the matter much more. He also accused me of being drunk and said that witnesses where the accident happened can testify to that. The cops convinced us to compromise and told me that I definitely had grounds for a complaint but may not be worth it. I was honestly sick of being in the PS and dealing with ruffians like him. The car owner brought a quotation of repair cost of 35K. The cop convinced the car owner to gpay me back 15k, meaning my small mistake cost me 25k. Also had to give the cop 1000 rupees, the price of justice i suppose. The cop asked him to claim insurance but he said that would take 15 days and he needs the car for work everyday. Ultimately a very unpleasant experience and I'm sure people in my shoes would have pursued the matter further but I just wanted to wash my hands off it ASAP. My takeaway from this is to stay away from that particular road, get a dashcam and understood how to deal with such situations in the future. Thank you everyone for your support.