SOURCE: Reddit - r/Gurgaon
CITY: Gurgaon
TITLE: Need advice on Rent scene in Gurgaon + more
AUTHOR: bxsedgod
DATE: 2024-12-26
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/gurgaon/comments/1hm6vet/need_advice_on_rent_scene_in_gurgaon_more/
--- POST TEXT ---

TL;DR - Do good and relatively affordable (sub 20k) 1BHKs actually exist in any area accessible to yellow or rapid metro line? Is it possible to find a good spacious room in a shared flat and do they provide privacy? Does the hookup scene actually exist or is it all sextortion?

Hi, I'm 25M moved here in June this year so I've been here for almost half a year now. I'm not completely oblivious to life in Gurgaon and have been here many times before since I have super-close relatives here. I am privileged that my relatives have allowed me to live with them all these months (altho it's in New gurgaon which is far as hell). I appreciate the fact that this has allowed me to patiently look for a place that is perfect for my needs, but I've been having doubts if it's actually possible to find something I want. I wanted some place within walking distance of any of the metro stations and even the last stations on the GCR would work. Any and all not trashy 1BHKs that I saw were over 25k(more than half my salary) and had a brokerage cost. Most of the shared flats had tiny rooms (which usually didn't even have enough space for a study desk) and the occupants usually always had a cleaning lady + cook combo which would amount to 3-4k on it's own. I just wanted a spacious living place with privacy and no restrictions and which would allow me to live frugally but everything always come down to a minimum expense of 35k+. Previously I found one good place in a shared flat but somebody paid the security amount before I could manage any funds.

Do fairly priced 1BHKs actually exist? They seem mythical to me. Do shared flats actually come with privacy? I would appreciate any leads. 

Also on a side note, is it actually possible to find any hookups here in Gurgaon? I have never been to any clubs and don't really have any fomo about going to one either. But I do wanna maybe hang out + more if it clicks. I've heard way too many stories about sextortion tho and am scared of the possibility. I don't really have much of a social life here and would like one lol. Please do tell if you have any suggestions.

Thanks in advance. 

Ps. I don't wanna live in U block. I went there and the place seemed absolutely degenerate no disrespect to anyone who lives there for proximity but my office is near the Delhi Gurgaon border and not cybercity.