SOURCE: Reddit - r/Indore
CITY: Indore
TITLE: Help with the Bank issue
AUTHOR: No-Ad6414
DATE: 2024-12-14
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Indore/comments/1hdur0q/help_with_the_bank_issue/
--- POST TEXT ---

Posting here because not sure if there is any bank specific reddit page.

Anyway, recently I recieved the new debit card for my account. When I went for PIN generation, it said "wrong Mobile number." I tried a few more times, but it still said the same. Later that night, I tried logging into YONO (don't use it much, so completely forgot about it till then). Turns out, I am not able to login. I thought it was a password issue, so I went to Online SBI web page and tried resetting from there. It said "wrong mobile no." again. 

I called customer care after this to inform them and seek help. They said the registered number in their system is entirely different from the number I am calling. (Yes, the number I called with should be the registered mumber, and it is the only one I use).

Then I went to the branch office in the morning. I told them everything and they asked me to fill the E-KYC form to change the phone number. When I went to submit the form, it turned out that their system has my phone number as registered number. Basically, branch office didn't have any changes in my details. I then went to the manager for the issue, he checked his system, signed and that's it. They said, the branch cannot do much here, as their system has the same details as what I have provided.

After this, I went home and called the customer care again. I explained the issue to them, and they were very insistent on "This is something you will have to ask the branch to update". She didn't listen to me at all, and even started raising her voice. I asked her if there is someone in the middle I could talk to other than the branch manager, and she just kept insisting that I go to the branch.

Please help, who should I go to from here? Should I file a cybersecurity complain as it is clearly a breach of data? I mean, nothing is stolen yet, but who knows what will happen once my UPI is shut and I am not able to add the new debit card?

TLDR: Phone number in the customer care database is changed, but stays the same in Branch office data of SBI. Not sure who to approach, please help.