SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: Adivasi hair oil is the new snake oil scam in India
AUTHOR: MysteriousApricot991
DATE: 2024-07-01
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1dsq2en/adivasi_hair_oil_is_the_new_snake_oil_scam_in/
--- POST TEXT ---

Unless you are living under a rock you must have been exposed to the paid scam ads disguised as "scam awareness videos" on YouTube &amp; Instagram by almost all famous influencers. All of These ads are disguised as "awareness" videos. It start by telling you that there is scam going on in the name of Adivasi hair oil and we are the geniune oil sellers. Most of the time the number given is different from other ads. It also have clip of modi praising the hakki pikki tribal community to add some authenticity. YouTubers are flown in and taken to their vilage and factory where they show the manufacturing of the hair oil. There are multiple problems in this marketing blitz.

Most if not all videos don't mention that it is a paid advertisement. Rather they call it a scam awareness video. Moreover, the influencers don't mention they have been paid in thousands or lakhs, with flight tickets, accomodation, food and everything else paid by the people whom they are advertising.

The oil itself is scam. The sellers claim it can make your hairs strong and long. Using their hairs of their (mainly female) family members as proof. Completely ignoring the genetics which play a key role in hair conditions, especially for men.

They also claim that it helps you grow new hair, which is totally unscientific claim. One can't grow back hairs on dead hair follicles without hair transplant. And they are saying this openly without any action taken against them by IMA or any medical authority.

Apparently there are multiple families in the village/region who are making and selling this hair oil and all of them claim to be the orginal one

It's time now to raise our voice against these scammers who are using sentiments towards tribal community and personal insecurities to sell what is essentially an unscientific scam oil.