SOURCE: Reddit - r/Bengaluru
CITY: Bengaluru
TITLE: Travel Planning
AUTHOR: Abhimri
DATE: 2024-05-27
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Bengaluru/comments/1d1bm5i/travel_planning/
--- POST TEXT ---

Inspired by someone asking for a travel itinerary on the sub (lol). 

There are maybe 3 types of travel options for anyone planning to do a trip with their significant other: 

1. Go on Spontaneous trips (high risk high reward strategy, and requires both partners to be compatible and at a generally good state, physically, mentally, financially, and romantically) 

2. Do package tours (a lot simpler option, travel agency will handle everything, just give money and travel without hassle. Suited for people that don't have the time or energy to plan, but may have specific travel needs) 

3. Plan your own adventure (suited for someone that wants a unique experience that's special just for themselves, and not a bus load of people. Takes a lot of planning) 

But if you want to plan a unique trip, let me give you step by step on how to do travel planning. Remember, better planning and advance booking = lesser travel costs. So based on what your budget allows, you can do as much or as little pre-planning. 

Disclaimer: this is just my opinion, and what I have done. I don't claim this is the best way. Ymmv. 

1. Sit down and talk about your travel with your SO and 1st, list each of your likes(where do each of you want to go, what do each you like to see, what's your bucket list "wanna go" place, etc)

2. If you have common places, excellent! Start there! If not, look up each other's places, see if anything interests you from that list. You should have at least a couple of options by this time. (if not, just stop here and get to know each other better before doing any travel together)

3. Now you know where you're going, do some research about the place. Some important things like: travel options available and costs, things to see, unique experiences that maybe available only at certain time of the year, tourist season, any non-negotiable each of you have (for example, going to Alappuzha is fine, but maybe one of you wants to spend a night on a houseboat, and the other is absolutely opposed to houseboats, have this conversation on what each of you wants BEFORE the trip, it's very important)

*PROTIP: This is also important because based on your needs and place, you can get an idea of budget, and accordingly adjust your expectations, your places, etc. You'll both have to agree upon where to go, what activities to do, what you can afford, with the x amount of money you've got. Like, going to Italy is great, but if you don't have the money for the gondola ride, what's the point?*

4. Based on your non negotiables, and budget, decide on dates (many tourist places charge more during their tourist season, and lower prices in off-season, but off-season in some places can be awful, or even unsafe, so it is important to find out this info before and decide if you're okay with it) 

5.Book travel tickets well in advance, and if you're planning on hiring full day taxis, or rent vehicles, do that in advance. I have used Booking.com, hotels.com, kayak, Airbnb, Vrbo, agoda, makemytrip, etc. For both tickets, and hotels. Each have some good and bad, but most of the booking sites are more or less okay. DO NOT BOOK ON SOME UNKNOWN SITE JUST BECAUSE THEY OFFER GREAT PRICES. this is a very successful scam a lot of people fall for.

*PROTIP: ALWAYS call the airline/travel agency/hotel etc separately to confirm your booking that you did on an aggregator like booking.com. Airlines or trains also have pnr number tracking, so you can check online as well.*

6. Search and shortlist places for accommodation, (again more choices, look what each of you need, what amenities are more important for both of you, how far is your accommodation from the things you're doing in the holiday, etc.) then decide on the hotel, sometimes your first choice may not have availability, so have a second choice ready if first becomes suddenly unavailable. 

*PROTIP: try to not look at too many different sites and options, it's easy to get Overwhelmed. You may save a few hundred Rs. between different sites, but lose a lot of time and mental energy that are worth more than the hundred rs you save. Keep that in mind while searching.*

7. If either of you have dietary restrictions, (religious or medical) look up places to eat, things to eat, etc before you travel. If you have any medical allergies of any kind, carry prescribed allergy medication. This will also help you find hotel accommodation near the place you can eat. 

8. Pack sensibly. Most important to minimize headaches, pack what's needed first (medication, sunscreen, raincoats, umbrella, shoes, etc) Carry comfortable clothes, and have spares (underwear, socks, sandals, toothbrush, etc) carry a little cash and have all your documents, passports, credit cards and cash easily accessible, but safe. 

9. Make time for fun. For us when traveling, apart from seeing new places, my partner and I also like reading and playing boardgames, so we would carry some simple games and books. Take whatever things both of you enjoy and can do together, and plan some time for it in your trip! 

10. Carry basic first aid. Especially if you're planning to do any activities (trekking, swimming, sports, etc)

11. Download offline Google maps of the region, and maybe also some good music /podcast playlists that both of you like. Especially important if driving. If going to a place with a different language, learn or write down a few basic words and phrases for like asking directions, yes/no, hello and thank you, etc. 

12. If doing trips that involve flying, be careful of weight and Baggage restrictions. Plan for having some room in your total allowed baggage when you go, so that if you buy something there, like a souvenir, you have enough space to bring it back. For larger items most shops offer to parcel it to your home address directly so that might be an option too.

All the best!