SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: Suggestions for socializing &amp; making friends / rant
AUTHOR: New-Nefariousness434
DATE: 2024-05-24
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1czqwx6/suggestions_for_socializing_making_friends_rant/
--- POST TEXT ---

TLDR; Feeling overwhelmed and alone in Delhi with no social group, struggling to make friends at work due to hybrid setup. Seeking advice on how to socialize and meet new people in Delhi.

Hello all, sorry for the long post, feeling a lot overwhelmed lately.

So I am from a rather small city in rajasthan and I shifted to Delhi back in 2018 with my family, did my +2 here but didn't made any friends in school during that time. After that I stayed mostly in my house because of covid (online college) and later in 2021 second half i moved to Pune for college.
I made really awesome friends there and had the best time of my life. 
Got done with college last year in may 2023 and chose to comeback to Delhi by choosing my workplace as gurgaon for my placement offer since my the then girlfriend was studying in delhi (we started dating while I was in pune so it made sense to come here). 
When I returned back to Delhi I was not feeling really good because coming here meant living with my family at home and compromising on my freedom which I had in pune, while also bot having no social froup at all but still gave it a shot.
Later after a few months I started my job and was adjusting in with a lot of things/changes in my life. 
Cut to October 2023, I found out my girlfriend had been cheating on me for 2 months straight and when I confronted her she had nothing to say and constantly lied to all the things I found out about her cheating. 
I felt devastated and just couldn't comprehend what am I even doing here cause despite the fact I could have gone to other cities (maybe the ones where my college friends are working), I chose Delhi so that I have a healthy relationship.
Anyway coming to the present time, May 2024, it's one year since my college has ended but I feel so bored and alone in this city.
My work is great I enjoy it but it's hybrid so I haven't been able to make lot of work colleagues and the ones I know are pretty much into themselves or something, idk.
I have tried using dating apps but they don't work for me, I tried going out solo but there's only so much I can do and I like to hangout out with people. Also I am not into reading, I haven't been able to bring myself to read books otherwise I'd have loved to join book clubs, though I wouldn't mind trying it but I'm looking for something beginner friendly.
If you'll have read it till here, thank you for listening to my rant. It would be really great if you suggest me ideas on how can I socialize in this city.