SOURCE: Reddit - r/Mumbai
CITY: Mumbai
TITLE: My younger sister is being harrassed by some guy on the internet. What's the next step?
AUTHOR: Alternative-Turn-984
DATE: 2023-06-10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/mumbai/comments/145ud9c/my_younger_sister_is_being_harrassed_by_some_guy/
--- POST TEXT ---

My younger sister [20F] got a phone call from a stalker a week ago around 1am. He said that he was from her college and that she doesn't attend the college much. I can only sense that someone is stalking my sister when he knows that she doesn't go to college often. And she rarely attends the college. She immediately hung up the phone and blocked the number. 

Yesterday, she got a text on Instagram from the same name that called her but with different surname. He wrote "Didi aapse kuch baat karni hai" or something like that. I took her phone and texted back "kya hua bhaiya". And immediately after that he started texting horrible things about his creepy kinks, sending pornographic gifs, etc. 

I was so furious and normally I'd have given him death threats. But looking at recent news about man stabbing her girlfriend and throwing bricks at her and many other horrible incidents, I told the guy I'm sorry please find someone else. He didn't stop right there and kept texting those rubbish things and a few more pornographic gifs.

We have contacted her college and let the professor know about the situation and also asked her to not take action immediately looking at the recent incidents and also requested her to not mention my sister's name anywhere.

If the guy's not from her college then we might file a complaint against this guy at the cyber cell. 

But I'm really scared what if the guy's a psycho and might hurt my sister? 

What should I do? I wish to beat the shit out this guy and bury him alive in front of his family and watch them suffer to raise such an animal. Maybe If nothing works I'll do that without hesitation. Saala madarchod

Edit: Thank you guys for your support. I have complained against the guy. The officer was so kind to us and explained about how he is gonna get the guy without using my sister's name. I had to write one application and I only used my name and wrote something like "harassing my sister". And also the officer was the head of the cyber department. He got us all the details about his real name which turned out to be different from the account he used and the name he told my sister on the call. His bank details, location everything is being tracked. The officer said that the guy will be caught in 2 days.

Edit 2: We went to the police station today again as we didn't get any update from the officer. The officer didn't do much since Sunday. He asked for five more days to complete the basic enquiries. The phone number of the guy is from a different state and not from Mumbai. But after five days we might need to file an FIR. But he was warning us about how my sister would have to make court appearances, and co-operate with the police whenever they call us, etc. Now we are hesitant to file the complaint and don't know what to do