SOURCE: Reddit - r/Gurgaon
CITY: Gurgaon
TITLE: Swiggy driver tried to scam me, became aggressive when I denied him money
AUTHOR: DefinitelyMaybeX
DATE: 2024-03-18
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/gurgaon/comments/1bhoveh/swiggy_driver_tried_to_scam_me_became_aggressive/
--- POST TEXT ---

Receiving my lunch today, I was greeted by my Swiggy driver sobbing and sweating. As soon as I opened the door, he started begging, telling me his pregnant wife is in the hospital and he needs 5000 rupees for the operation which he will return after he gets his salary day after tomorrow.

Now I've already faced my share of begging scams, but I felt bad turning someone away outright, because what if they're really needy? Besides, this guy kept trying to forcibly hand me his bike key saying you can keep it until I return the money (when I didn't ask for anything from him) to make himself come across as genuine.

So I asked him for his phone number, saying I have to work right now but I'll call you later. The guy was very insistent on getting me to give the money that very moment, and I had to ask him a good few times before he gave me a phone number. He also wanted me to pay on a specific QR code instead of his phone number, which set off a red flag too. After this, I took the picture of his QR code and had to forcibly shut the door in his face saying I'll give the money later.

5 minutes later, I decided to give the guy a call, I thought I'd ask him for his ID proof, the hospital bill and I'll directly pay the money for his ticket back home and wife's medicines if that's what he really needed. But lo and behold, the number he gave me DID NOT EXIST. I realised that the name he told me was different from his name on Swiggy too.

Convinced it was a scam, I went back to my work. Few minutes later, I heard a very aggressive knock on my door, which I didn't open. The Swiggy guy then had the audacity to open the unlocked main door, come inside the house to my room (I have a room in a shared 4BHK) and banging my door loudly. When I refused to open, he started screaming "Sir dena hai toh do, jhootha bharosa mat dilao" and wailing loudly. I just told him to leave or I'll call the security guard, but he stayed for another few minutes before giving up and leaving.

This made me feel horribly unsafe and the audacity of such people is increasing by the day. I reported the person to the Swiggy team who said they'll take action. I'm all for helping the needy, but if you guys (or your older parents, who are more likely to sympathise and toge.money) face something similar, please warn them about this and ask them for the requisite proof beforehand. And don't let them into your house at any cost.