SOURCE: Reddit - r/Bengaluru
CITY: Bengaluru
TITLE: Frightening incident with food delivery agent
AUTHOR: Senior-World-1088
DATE: 2025-04-14
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Bengaluru/comments/1jz5ycc/frightening_incident_with_food_delivery_agent/
--- POST TEXT ---

I’m (22F) shaking as I write this. Earlier today, I had placed a lunch order via Zomato to my place. The ETA for delivery was roughly around 1 hour and since I was busy with my routine tasks, I hadn’t bothered to check on the delivery update. After about an hour of waiting, I check the app to see where my delivery guy and it showed that the order had been marked as delivered 10 minutes back and I was initially flabbergasted. Mind you, this has never ever happened to me despite living in Blr for the last 5 years. So I decided to call the delivery partner.

Upon engaging on a call with him, he sounded irritated and initially tried to put the blame on me saying, I was trying to commit fraud and that I’m putting the blame on him. I was even more confused atp and mind you, I can hear wind in the background as interruption suggesting that he’s still riding his bike. He cuts the call on me saying he’ll be at my place in 2 minutes. I waited at the entrance for nearly 10 minutes when I gave him a call again. This time, he cussed me out so much, threatened to hurt me if I called him. A few minutes later, he turns up at the door, throws the food package on the floor and continues screaming. The one mistake I made was engage in a conversation with him and not letting go of the situation. When he left, he slammed the elevator doors so hard, it’s now down for the entire building (for context my building has those manual elevators where you have to slide the doors shut yourself) 

I immediately got in touch with Zomato’s support team and all they mentioned was that they have given him a verbal warning and will ensure such issues wouldn’t happen again. However, I’m still worried about the threats he put forward. He knows where I live and since I’ve raised a complaint with Zomato as well. How do I go about this?