SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
CITY: Delhi
TITLE: I bribed my own brother for his own benefit
AUTHOR: Timely-Bumblebee-532
DATE: 2025-04-19
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1k2se8v/i_bribed_my_own_brother_for_his_own_benefit/
--- POST TEXT ---

Sorry for long text, couldn’t keep it short 🥲

My brother is in 1st year of his college (IT), He struggles focusing on to coding - he starts scrolling reels, watch gaming videos, movies and all after a short time.

I tried to explain him, to give some focus time to coding as well and he listens too but for a short time and starts wasting time again !

I thought, maybe he does not have motivation, Lets bribe him.

I created a fake gmail (lets call person X) and sent a freelancing project requirement (Project amount :3k, Time: 15 days, Notes taking web app for some student project) to my own personal email

I asked my brother if he wants to pick it up, as i don’t have time due to the job.

Note : My brother didn’t have any technical knowledge till now

He wanted to accept the project but was worried if he can complete it, I gave him assurance that if I tell u steps, you will be able to do it for sure. So he accepted it.

Due to this motivation, He was able to learn HTML, CSS, JavaScript. Ofcourse basics.

He spent 10 days in learning and done some assignments as I instructed for better learning

Rest of the 5 days, he spent on project.

He completed it, (also learnt basic git meanwhile) and then he sent the project to X with bank details

Boom! I paid him with my friend’s account so he don’t have any clue

No one knows about this in my family. My mother is also very happy with him.

Forwarding to today, He worked on multiple React, Firebase, NodeJS projects and got some money💰

I try to give him progressive projects like the latest one needs him to use service worker and web worker.

He uses these money to buy clothes, gifting on family and friend bdays, eating outside food, hanging out with friends without asking money from me or parents.