SOURCE: Reddit - r/Hyderabad
CITY: Hyderabad
TITLE: What can we do ?
AUTHOR: Sukesh91
DATE: 2023-05-22
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hyderabad/comments/13otzr3/what_can_we_do/
--- POST TEXT ---

My wife’s sister is 19 years old and we were planning to surprise my mother in law and her sister, because we currently reside in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia and we decided to fly down to Hyderabad . While we reached Hyderabad we got a call from a constable in a village called Nellikuduru, they’ve informed us that my sister in law eloped and got married to a guy who’s 21 years and they are seeking police protection, my mother in law who’s been a diabetic patient and is undergoing medication to get her sugar levels down post hearing this news she was caught unaware and her health is looking bleak at the moment.

While we did receive the news and we were called to the police station the next day. We tried counselling my sister in law about the lack of foresight and No understanding of how the future is going to look like. We got to know more about the guy and what we found was he was in a sexual harassment case before and was filed with an FIR with the sections of 354, 354a, 509 and 506 IPC. The victims father did not want to pursue this further and decided to reach a compromise since he dint want to spoil the future of the guy.

My sister in law did leave her phone at her place, whilst we did unlock her phone and checked WhatsApp and Instagram chats with the guy, what we found was quite shocking where the boy was sending those obscene reels related to sex and also pressurising her for marriage.

We also wanted to see if the boy was living a decent life, and through one of his photos we found that he was working at Jio in Marredpally we found that the guy was fired 3 months ago because of some internal fraud that he’s committed and his mother is a daily wage worker at the same village who gets about 500 INR for a day.

The sarpanch of that village had helped the boy out in terms of how he can ensure that he keeps the girl and is still supporting him with what has to be done next at the same time he comes to us and sweet talks to us. He took the opportunity and has painted quite a negative picture of myself and my wife that we are the aggressors and are looking to hit the guy

Me and my wife wanted to make peace with it and let her live her life on her own, but looking at the cases the boy has and the lack of a job to take care of his family is not sitting down well with us.

We did reach out to a couple of our connections within the police personnel who offered little to no help at all. The most that we got was just 45 mins to counsel the girl and a gossip from the police station there that this marriage wouldn’t last long and once they do not find a living to make these marriages get called off or sometimes it might even result in either the boy or girl losing their life.

The police in the village did not even allow us to show where the boy lived while we pointed out that we are concerned about her safety and well being and the SI had mentioned that if we visited his place there would be a problem with the villagers.

At the moment, my mother in laws health is in a critical state, my wife is down and out her uncles are in a state of shock and I’m still trying to understand why a 19 year old has to take this step.

I do not know who to reach out to and I’m seeking advise or help on what can be done here to have her back or maybe visit Hyderabad to check on her mom for a few days and in turn counsel her again.

Sorry about the lengthy post but had to put this out here and any help on this would be of great help.