SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: Milkshake Swap Scam, A huge crore amount of Scam and nobody knows about it. 
AUTHOR: HopeRevolutionary914
DATE: 2024-04-24
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1cc4gpo/milkshake_swap_scam_a_huge_crore_amount_of_scam/
--- POST TEXT ---

I know this is too long to read. Please read it and share it everywhere.

So my previous post I posted that I have lose Rs 10k in binance chain. But after doing deep research about this I found that it was a huge crores scam done by big politicians who are in power right now.

I know many people will ask me the proof. I don’t have the proof but yes the Scam is true. You can google milkshakeswap.finance and see the website. Also check their social media handles.

_How I got Scammed?_
In June 2022, I purchased 272 milk tokens of Rs 10k. I got to know about this through my relatives and friends who are big builders. I purchased the tokens as a long term investment. In June 2023 I earned approx 2k profit on my investment. After observing the graph and profit I decided not to sell it and keep it for long term. Till January 2024 the website was working fine. I regularly login the website. But after that I stopped checking it again and again due to my exams. Then the day before yesterday I tried to login but found that the website is no longer available. The website domain is in sale. It was confirmed that I got scammed. I called my knowns who invested and got to know they also got scammed. Since, I invested a very small piece of amount I was not at all upset but my knowns were really upset because they invested lakhs amount of money.

_What is the scam?_
In profit month i.e. June 2023 they changed their terms and conditions. Now, those who want to sell their tokens, they first have to purchase the same amount of tokens they have and then they can sell it. After selling the tokens they have to block their account. So after reading the new policy, users thought why selling those tokens because they are in profit. The users who actually want to sell, changed their decision after reading to the new policy. So in this way, very few users took the risk and sell their tokens and hence they get saved from this scam. And those who invested their money for long term got trapped.

_How I got to know this is a scam?_
After realising that I got scammed, I searched their social media account, checked their every single post. When I was checking their very old posts in Facebook, I found that they have commented a number for assistance. I called at the number but no body picked up. I called on that number several times but didn’t got the response. After an hour I again called on that number and finally a person picked up the call. I asked him if he’s from the team of Milkshake Swap. He said that he’s the founder and asked me how I got his number (maybe he’s sacred of his deeds). I didn’t answered his question and ask about the website. Then he told me that this is a very big scam, he’s just a puppet but the main culprits are very big politicians of UP who are in power right now (didn’t mention their name here due to sub policy).

_Why nobody posted about this or complaining about this scam?_
Actually the people who invested in this are those people who are very rich. They didn’t complain about it because the money they invested is tax money. They just invested the tax money to get saved from paying taxes. Very few people like me who invested small amount of money didn’t want to complain because they didn’t want to waste their time and energy in fighting against these big personalities. Everyone knows the conditions of Indian laws. And the bitter truth is “yaha sirf taarikh milti hai, faisla toh unki agli generation hi sun paati hai”