SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kerala
STATE: Kerala
TITLE: I was already sick of people using the kerala Isis issue to defame kerala. Then came the kerala story.
AUTHOR: lifelessdragonslayer
DATE: 2023-04-28
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kerala/comments/131rdfk/i_was_already_sick_of_people_using_the_kerala/
--- POST TEXT ---

I study in the u.p and here every so often i have people come up to me to me talk about how sad it is for kerala to have such a high literacy rate yet suffer such attrocities as having its youth join thhe Isis. Which, i at that time had very little knowledge except that it did happen, but now to hear people coming up to me to smear the name of the land i belong to, feel like shit. Even when i now know kerala had only the 3rd Highest number of arrests
,(https://www.new3indianexpress.com/nation/2019/oct/15/not-kerala-tn-and-up-has-maximum-arrests-in-isis-related-cases-nia--2047616.html), and even though the people who asked me belonged to a higher convicted no, it annoys me that people just try to shit on the entirety of kerala just because of an issue that has very few people involved. I hate talking about such things yet i have to research on it, so as to to not let people just trash on a place i call home.

Now, i saw the trailer of kerala story, a documentary which claims a stupid number of victims, calls itself a true story, and a comment section that Just feels like a normal Indian filim comments section (filled with bots and tons of fake reviews). And almost all Hindi revies of it filled with comments which may be bots supporting hindurashtra, anti-muslim sentiments.. i feel like obvious focus it plays on the ideo that "hindu girls are being converted aswell as Christians" emphasising hindu to create friction, the fact that the movie is made in Hindi and not in Malayalam , which would either mean they couldn't accept the situation happening in kerala and felt like no Malayalam creator will create a documentary like them, or the movie just wasn't meant for kerala and was made to give a certain idea about kerala to others with ambiguous statistics with the support that it is a fiction based on a true story. Emphasising the true story and not the fiction. 
Now unfortunately I am biased i can't give a unbiased analysis on this situation but no matter how i see it it feels like a movie created to create friction in the malayali community, to destroy the image of Kerala (as much as i hate to agree with politicians), and it just feels like a plot by the bjp to amplify the issue to get a hold of the kerala seats or to just give an idea to the public ruled by them that the land ruled by the opposition has issues. Or maybe just to spread anti-muslim sentiments to the country.

In the end it is still the failure of our government and our society that such a thing happened, we must fix it, but for this issue to be used as a reason make kerala a punching bag, it just feels wrong.