SOURCE: Reddit - r/Goa
STATE: Goa
TITLE: SCAMMED! Cry for help.
AUTHOR: NetMassive645
DATE: 2023-10-03
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Goa/comments/16yjoa3/scammed_cry_for_help/
--- POST TEXT ---

I WAS SCAMMED!!!

I joined LTI ( now LTIMindtree ) as a fresher software engineer at Skyview building 20, Hyd. I left my job to pursue higher studies but my visa got rejected probably due to funds. 
I used up my savings for my visa processing and other processes like study loan,etc. 
In hope of getting my visa approved again I started applying for part time and freelancing jobs on sites like freelancer, Fiverr, etc. 
In this process I got subjected to a scam where they initially paid me well and then they started offering pre paid jobs. I got paid in return too, however after some time I paid 3000 and didn’t get paid back, these are group tasks, the other people in my group showed me proofs of their work and payment. So I proceeded with the job and then they made me pay 25000 and 98000. I replenished my funds by now. The other people said these were common and went ahead to pay more. I was blackmailed at this point that I won’t get my previous money back until I do 2 more prepaid tasks for which I had no funds but because I could not lose my money I took loans from apps and paid 240000 and 350000. But to no vail they said there is one final task but I could not do anything. I lost all my money! 

PLEASE ANYBODY READING THIS SHARE WITH OTHERS TO NOT PARTICIPATE IN SUCH ACTIVITIES JUST TO MAKE MONEY. 

Now I am jobless, without a roof or food to eat and a 40k months emi and 0 income. 

I filed a case with cyber crime which has been with cyberabad police for a while now. 

With nothing left in hand and no guts to face my family I am here crying for help. I wanted to provide for my parents and applied for masters in hope of making better money even with part time or full time. 

Now not only can I provide for my parents, I am broke, no money, no job. My only hope is my visa getting approved but now I have a loan and credit history will go down. 

I just spoiled my whole life with my own hands and am facing the consequences. Please don’t do something like this EVER. MONEY NEVER COME EASILY. And FREE / EASY MONEY NEVER LASTS. 

I can do data entry, write SOP’s and LOR’s, data transcribing, content writing. If you have any job leads for wfh or freelancing for above skills please refer me. 

I plan on moving to my parents home in Guntur since I don’t have money for a PG but I don’t know how or what to tell them. It’s my family’s 4 years income that I lost. They would not be able to help me financially and in turn it would only put pressure on them mentally. I am scared I will lose something the most valuable to me if I tell them this. 

I am crying for financial help so that I can get through the day for some food and also to pay my loan. Help me if possible even if it’s as low as 10/- 

If interested please help - smanthe26@ibl

Please share my story for others to see. And raise awareness on cyber crimes online. I wish I helped atleast one person from getting scammed like me. 

Thank you!