SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kerala
STATE: Kerala
TITLE: Lot of scams happening in the name of kuri!!
AUTHOR: alchemist_1729
DATE: 2023-07-12
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kerala/comments/14xry2y/lot_of_scams_happening_in_the_name_of_kuri/
--- POST TEXT ---

I have been hearing a lot of scams happening in the name of kuri both private and bank kuri!!

The people who pay for these kinds of kuri are usually common people working for very low wage or very poor people. 

The main attraction to these kuri is that every month one member of the group is chosen by lottery or other means to receive the entire pool of funds for that period. The members of the group then rotate receiving the fund, with each member receiving the fund in turn as per the agreement. 

Many of these kuri is done by private person who have some influence among the local public. But as they don't have any knowledge about finance they end up in huge debt and getting out of the town.

In other case small regional banks and cooperative banks does this kuri by employing local agents who would literally torture these common daily wage living people they know to get into this. Because of these local friendships most of them end up paying to this kuri. 

In many cases the agent who gets the payment from the people do not give the receipt or don't give the payment card which details all the payments history done by the person. 

As many of this kuri is done in terms of personal friendships or with people whom they know they don't usually ask for these receipts or any kinds of proof.

Sometimes the agents would take out small amounts from this monthly payment or sometimes the entire amount!!

As in most cases these common people don't have any proof or recipes or mesages to show any kinds of proof of how much money they paid and they never bother to check out these agents can easily scam them. 

Many people realise these scams very late and 
some even never knows they have been scammed all these years! 

These ruthless agents will scam these common people and in most cases they won't even know about it!

In most cases even if the bank knows about this scam they just fire the agent and don't bother to file any kinds of fraud case against these agents because it will damage the reputation of the bank and its future kuri business will get affected. These agents might also have good political connection which makes it even safe for them to scam the people confidently. 

if anyone or their friends or family is into any types of kuri make sure you recieve the recipt and mesaages from your bank, that your agent is paying the exact amount in the bank.

Also once in a while visit your bank or call them to make sure your payments are done and is safe.

We need to spread awareness about this kuri. 

Share this message to your friends and family and people whom you know about this scam and ask them to be careful and take necessary steps to make sure you are not scammed!

Have you heard about these kinds of kuri scams ??!