SOURCE: Reddit - r/Rajasthan
STATE: Rajasthan
TITLE: UPI Fraud
AUTHOR: WangXian_
DATE: 2024-08-31
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Rajasthan/comments/1f5mxhu/upi_fraud/
--- POST TEXT ---

well i alr know that i acted very stupidly but vaise here's the story - 

some sharma ji called me and said that he talked to my father and that my father told him to transfer the money in my account instead of his (i don't exactly remember everything, i was very out of it). he said he'll transfer 10k first and then told me to check if the money has been transferred. i just checked the notification and there was just an sms saying that money has been credited to my account (i just skimmed over it and didn't look at it v carefully). he then said he'll transfer 3k and then told me to check again and i got the sms that 30k has been credited. (i had a little suspicion at this point and i rly don't know why i didn't just check my gpay once or didn't get suspicious of the fact that there was no +30k notif from my bank T.T) and now you all must have imagined alr what happened :') he told me he accidently transferred 30k instead of 3k and gave me a upi id to transfer the excess 27k to in parts of two 10k and then 7k. i, like a complete fool, actually transferred two 10k (he was also talking in such a sense of urgency which now i realize was also a warning sign). at the third transaction i got the notif that there's not enough account balance and that is when everything finally clicked. i said that the money he (supposedly) transferred has not been credited and he told me to transfer 2k first. at this point i had given the phone to my brother and i don't remember what he talked about but it wasn't long and then he cut the call. i got a message from another whatsapp number to send the screenshots of the transactions, i called that number but he blocked me there too.

now i'm fully fully aware this is entirely my fault but i can't stop panicking and i'm rly losing my shit. 

the actions i've taken right now - filed a transaction complaint on my bank app 

filed a complaint at cyber crime website

ik now that this is a v common upi fraud case but i just wanted to know if i can get my money back and if there's anything else i could do at this point. 

ty in advance