SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kerala
STATE: Kerala
TITLE: Service Of Legal Notice Through WhatsApp, Other Electronic Means Recognized Under Consumer Protection Act: Ernakulam District Commission
AUTHOR: Voxyacomplaintforum
DATE: 2024-08-28
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kerala/comments/1f39j7a/service_of_legal_notice_through_whatsapp_other/
--- POST TEXT ---

The Ernakulam Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission very newly passed judgment where the court held that all possible options can be used including digital platforms such as WhatsApp, can be explored for the delivery of notices to parties who used to avoid accepting notices to escape legal action.

This verdict was issued by the court during the case of Aleena Nelson of Thrissur who alleged cheating in her online transaction with a boutique. In this case, complainant had taken the approval to deliver the notice to the boutique owner in Kochi via WhatsApp.

The complainant purchased a kurta and dupatta through the boutique’s Instagram page and paid ₹1,400 through Google Pay for the order. However, the product was not delivered to the complainant. She filed a complaint repeatedly to the opposite party but the boutique did not provide any response. In fact all the attempts to resolve the issue in person also proved futile.

Aggrieved by the situation the customer filed the complaint before the Ernakulam Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission demanding compensation for deficiency in service and unfair trade practice.

The Commission’s notice to the opposite party was returned on the grounds that there was no such person. It was then that the petitioner sought the permission of the Commission to deliver the notice by WhatsApp.

The panel also cited the Supreme Court's order to adopt more efficient and cost-effective methods instead of conventional methods like registered post, courier, and newspaper advertisements. Section 65 of the Consumer Protection Act also permitted the delivery of notice through electronic medium to parties, who deliberately avoid accepting notices to escape legal action.

Published by **Voxya** as an initiative to help consumers in resolving consumer complaints.