SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kerala
STATE: Kerala
TITLE: Got scammed by an ecommerce website - what are my options?
AUTHOR: jishnu7
DATE: 2023-01-22
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kerala/comments/10idvdf/got_scammed_by_an_ecommerce_website_what_are_my/
--- POST TEXT ---

I was thinking to purchase some Ikea furniture and then stumbled upon this ad on Instagram by littlelovedcorner &lt;dot&gt; &lt;com&gt;. Where they will purchase Ikea furniture for us and ship it to anywhere in India. Their website looked legit and them seems to have some presence on amazon.

I placed an order in November after talking to their customer relationship executive. Default payment was UPI, I thought of using credit card but decided to save 3% (biggest regret) and use GPay.

There was no response after my order. I tried Whatsapp'ing the person who took the order, he stopped responding. Calls were also unanswered. Toll free number not working, emails unanswered, request for a callback from the official whatsapp number responds that someone will contact within an hour, but never does. With several tries, He responded after a week, saying he was on sick leave for a week, that's why he couldn't respond - gave an update saying that the order failed in their quality check, and they gave it back to Ikea for a replacement by end of tomorrow. One more week passed, same thing - all channels went silent again.

Several weeks passed, I tried to my wife's number to register a new purchase request and a new customer relations executive responded within 10 mins. I explained him things, he promised that this is not a scam, even though this is not his work, he'll personally try to get an update for me. With a couple of days delays from the promised update date, he said that my order will be shipped before the end of the week.

Finally, the order was shipped, I got tracking info, took 2–3 days for the item to arrive, I was furious when I saw the item. They shipped only 1 item out of 3, I placed - the cheapest one of my order, worth &gt;20k. More than 18k worth item yet to be shipped. I tried contacting again - all channels went silent again.

One more week passed, somehow I got hold of an executive and asked to cancel my remaining order if they can't fulfil. They did and promised the refund will be processed in 15–20 days. This is strange for any business, but I gave them time, expecting this is the standard time but will be processed within a couple of days.

I thought of checking on after 15 days, I got a message saying that wait for 20 days. I waited 30 days before contacting again, email support said, they'll check with accounting and get back - never did. I message again - gave a reply asking me to wait one more week. I waited 2 weeks. Yesterday, when I contacted, they are asking me to wait for one more week - asked for reason didn't give anything via email.

I insisted for a reason, they called me and said the company is under financial issues - my refund will be processed within a week. I asked for exact date, reluctantly said next Sunday.

Today, when I checked their instagram, they seems to have locked their posts and no longer allowing comments. Google Map review is full of order not fulfilment.

I am 99% believe they won't process it by next week. What are my options to get back my 18k? Should I file a police complaint? Anyone has done something similar? Any help would be appreciated. 

I'm based out of Kochi and where do I need to file a complaint? Cybercell?