SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kerala
STATE: Kerala
TITLE: E biotorium : Magnetic bed
AUTHOR: cuddywifter
DATE: 2022-07-24
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kerala/comments/w6b1up/e_biotorium_magnetic_bed/
--- POST TEXT ---

Both my parents are retired government servants. They are old and take most decision based on emotions and principles of pleasing people. 

Into this story comes a man who is their acquaintance. He came with his friends to sell magnetic mattress to them. 

I was at home during their visit and stepped into the conversation when one of the visitors claimed that the curing effects of the magnetic bed was scientifically proven. 

I asked him about the institute and the scientist who did the study, about the sample space of the study etc. He said that all the information is there in the website and some other random non sense. 

I questioned him on his claim that joint pain and heart disease can be cured by sleeping on the magnetic sheets/bed which they were selling for Rs. 7500 , Rs 11500 etc. 

Apparently they even told my gullible old parents that the actual price of the items were Rs. 46000. 

There was no way, lying down on a magnetic field was going to have any effect on human body, simply because of the fact that there are no ferromagnetic material in our body. ( if there were they will come off flying during an MRI scan). 

With some difficulty I could block their attempt to sell the product to my parents. My parents were not happy that I argued with them. Parents agreed that I had valid points but that was somehow not worth more than pleasing the visitors. 

I did some internet reading and visited e biotorium website. Scam was written all over the wall. 

Apparently, they have a demo where they instantly show the strength a user can attain by using their product. 
https://m.facebook.com/watch/?v=1236283003458778&amp;_rdr 

I would like to see the trick they use during this demo and strike on that last nail on the coffin of their interaction with people at my home. 

Anyone have any stories to share related to these e biotorium people ?