SOURCE: Reddit - r/TamilNadu
STATE: Tamil Nadu
TITLE: Why no one is talking about Kashi Rape case
AUTHOR: Puzzled_Estimate_596
DATE: 2025-04-11
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/TamilNadu/comments/1jwpm46/why_no_one_is_talking_about_kashi_rape_case/
--- POST TEXT ---

When the country Judicial and Police force is busy chasing people for cracking jokes and for posting twitter memes. Varanasi is also known as Kasi. Kasi is the consituency of our supreme leader. They wre trying to hide this case, the accused are from different religion, but they have one thing in common, they are monsters in human skin.

**Posting this to raise awareness and solidarity. But the details are deeply disturbing and need to be seen.**

A young woman in Varanasi disappears for six days. In that time, she is drugged, raped, passed between strangers like a thing, threatened with blackmail, dumped on the roadside, picked up again, and violated once more. Not by one man, but many. Not in one place, but everywhere. Hotels, cafés, rooftops, moving cars…..

You should read this timeline because this is the shape of something real, something happening around us while we scroll, shop, and sleep.

March 29, 2025:

..Survivor met Raj Vishwakarma.

..He took her to a hotel and raped her. The assault was recorded on video.

..Later, she was taken to a hookah bar in the Pishachmochan area. She was given a spiked drink and intoxicated.

March 30, 2025:

..When she tried to return home, Raj, Sameer, Ayush Singh, and others threatened to release the video if she left.

..She was then gang-raped by these individuals. Her mobile phone was taken, leaving her unable to contact anyone.

March 31, 2025:

..The men kept her at the hotel.

..They then called Suhail, Sajid, Anmol, Danish, and Zaheer.

..In a drugged, semi-conscious state, she was taken to Continental Café in Maldahiya. She was sexually assaulted at the café.

..Imran, Shoaib, and Zaib arrived and also assaulted her.

April 1, 2025:

..Sajid and others took her to another hotel and raped her.

..After the assault, she was thrown out of the hotel.

..Imran took her to a different hotel and again raped her.

April 2, 2025:

..Raj Khan took her to the rooftop of his house in Hukulganj. He attempted to rape her after drugging her.

..When she resisted, they took her in an intoxicated state to Assi Ghat and abandoned her there.

April 3, 2025:

..Sajid and 5–6 others picked her up in a car. She was gang-raped inside the moving vehicle.

..They threw her out late at night.

..Danish then took her to his friend’s room. There, Sohail, Shoaib, and others drugged and raped her again.

..She was later left near Chowkghat.

April 4, 2025:

..She managed to return home.

April 6, 2025:

..Her family filed a formal complaint of gang-rape at the Lalpur police station.

..An FIR was registered.

**Please do not delete this, our country needs to know. Media and Arnab will not cover this.**