SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: Vape scam India  IVS international Dushyant Sahu scammer
AUTHOR: Far_Juggernaut8120
DATE: 2025-04-24
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1k6f1hn/vape_scam_india_ivs_international_dushyant_sahu/
--- POST TEXT ---

I wanted to share my scam story. So I was trying to quit smoking just like everyone around, I was looking for options to buy vape around online. Most of the people and website had negative ratings and scam alerts. I saw a page on Instagram which was exposing fake vape sellers I asked for him for suggestions, so he gave me a number under the name of Dushyant Sahu and said he had bought from him earlier. I trusted him and paid the guy 4500 in advance. He sent me the pictures of the package. I was waiting for it initially thinking that the guy is genuine. The day comes for delivery my first package got marked delivered without me even getting a call. As soon as I called the courier company they said the address provided by the sender is completely different from yours and they confirmed the address for Some Sunita Singh at Gurujee pharmacy in delhi ip extension. I called the guy and he said that it could be a mistake I will reship the package for you. This time he changed the shipper and, me being curious I confirmed the address with the courier team before the parcel was delivered and they confirmed the address is the same. Now I got too furious and this guy shipped a third package and I confirmed from the courier team that the address is mine, however they were unable to confirm contact details. As soon as the order got out for delivery the status showed customer rejected otp verified. I called blue dart and told them that I never got any call. They confirmed that the address was mine however the number given was completely different. And they confirmed the last 4 digits of the number and it matched with the seller's number. This b*tc* a** wasted my 15 days + my money. I'm attaching screenshots of all the products he showed me everything was a scam I'll attach a screenshot of the profile of the person who referred me to him as well. Be safe from these kind of guys.