SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: Be aware of the scam on massage republic online platform for escorts in new delhi.
AUTHOR: Mettalurgy
DATE: 2025-04-08
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1jubra7/be_aware_of_the_scam_on_massage_republic_online/
--- POST TEXT ---

I called a number available on massage republic and asked for incall service (u go to the call girls arranged place),The other side he spoke was an agent instead of listed woman.

Since it was my first time, I had little knowledge but I was mindful and cautious.
When inquired, he made me book a girl for 6k a session . The woman was attractive. They asked to reach the Hotel Alka Classic in CP (delhi). I had doubts because its a prominent landmark and a family hotel since I based out of delhi I knew about it.

On reaching, I called the number provided by agent to contact her, to my surprise she was out in traffic and excused for delay of 15mins.
I waited 15 mins and called, she was doing a little chit chat and killing time, I asserted where are u or tell me the room number I will walk towards it. She said i cant give u number like that I dnt knw you, please wait outside hotel or in car I will come and pick u.

I got doubtful and asked her dnt meet outside hotel alka but tell me some famous place in the same line , she was clueless . I gave her a known restaurant name and told her to meet outside that place. It seemed the name was new for her. After waiting for another 10 mins, she called and asked for my car number or shirt colour to identify you. I asked her u tell me where are u, since i had her pic. She told me i am outside the hotel ( again not at the place where i told her) I Saw from faar that there was no one outside the hotel, I also checked closely for 5 more mins. “ May be i was being targeted by identifying me first “ i was never standing at the places where she asked me to thr specifically. Was always distant and pretended to be busy on phone. So guys be aware and mindful. Small bucks can land u in big trouble. Spend more and trusted source if in Delhi.