SOURCE: Reddit - r/Chhattisgarh
STATE: Chhattisgarh
TITLE: DURG DOESN'T REALLY EXIST !! HERE'S THE TRUTH
AUTHOR: Suspicious-Row5831
DATE: 2024-10-29
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chhattisgarh/comments/1gemh17/durg_doesnt_really_exist_heres_the_truth/
--- POST TEXT ---

Have you ever been to Durg or know a person who has been to Durg? Yeah, I didn't think so, The only time someone says they're from Durg is in coachings/colleges in Bhilai-Raipur, clearly government agents hiding in plain sight

Despite showing up in government reports, on the electoral roll, and in budget allocations, No map really knows where it is? See below how different maps show it to be its own city or a locality in Bhilai, Raipur or Bilaspur . If you search on the internet it says its an old place yet there’s no history of the place, no notable events, and no population that can confirm its existence.

https://preview.redd.it/pdgwfg27imxd1.jpg?width=3106&amp;format=pjpg&amp;auto=webp&amp;s=ca74ee3ddd0c69e39d9a3171eb65a6767afdc9d8

 Yet, somehow, it manages to stay in the spotlight of politics and economics. How? The truth is : It’s a ghost city, created solely for corruption.

Its a tool used by the people at the top to fool the public, When Chhattisgarh separated from Madhya Pradesh, they saw an opportunity, They drew random lines , generated fake addresses, created fake people and Voila, Durg was created, The plan was executed perfectly and until today no one noticed, but they didn't account for the technological revolution that was gonna happen in the cartography field with satellites and all and how it became increasingly difficult to define the lines of the non-existent place, Do you really think we cant find Durg with all the modern technology if it actually existed in the center of India of all places ? Tbh I wouldn't have noticed if they didn't try to be funny and named the place incorrectly spelled "Drug".

The fake city of Durg has been a political goldmine. The government has used it as a bottomless pit to hide failed infrastructure projects and reroute funds to their election campaigns. They talk about building DBR tri-city metro, think about how much money they would siphon for building a métro in a city that doesn't exist. Durg conveniently performs comparable or better than raipur in socio-economic statistics released by the government (HDI,Social progress) but think about it, if a place comparable to the capital really existed why would companies like Starbucks, Mariott etc go to fucking Bilaspur and not Durg? The big companies know Durg doesn't exist but they're too afraid to speak up, The statistics are manipulated to make people believe their money is being used for good. Another reason to make this fake place is to pad voter rolls with ghost voters from Durg to boost electoral victories in crucial constituencies.

Recently some news about Mahadev Betting App scam in Durg surfaced, Yet the news articles mention Raipur and Dubai more than Durg, Here's the thing the scam companies register in durg, a place that doesn't exist so even if their scam gets exposed they cannot be trailed, 

Wake up people, you're being made a fool, If you don't believe me then prove me wrong,(Spoiler : you can't)