SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kerala
STATE: Kerala
TITLE: The great kerala ISP scam
AUTHOR: joethebear
DATE: 2021-08-27
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kerala/comments/pcqemj/the_great_kerala_isp_scam/
--- POST TEXT ---

How is your ISP experience during these WFH times? 

Here's my experience: 

Used to be in Bangalore, used ACT, Hathway and Airtel during my long stay there and apart from the slightly higher price ACT was my favourite with jio dongle as my mobility friendly ISP.

Coming to Kerala, ISP is a nightmare. Beginning with installation, repairs and even a good portal to report issues / download invoices is missing.

Case 1 : BSNL : It's a joke, the compliant and time to resolution might take couple of weeks. Half the times you are paying for downtimes, the other half they will make you curse the govt.

Case 2 : Airtel, unfortunately no service in my area but good experience where I have seen it.

Case 3 : JIO dongle - Speeds vary depending on proximity to city centre and not totally reliable for large video meeting calls.

Case 4: [insert our continent]net, the current ISP. Decent bandwidth, BIG time scammers. 

First, they will push a multi month subscription on you, 5 months 3499 and the like, then the fun starts :

Want to downgrade your plan to a monthly plan? Pay a downgrade charge of ₹2000 and you can enjoy lower speeds at 499+tax (600) instead of paying 3500 one shot (700 monthly)

Want to cancel the plan? Oh we don't take those requests over phone but we will accept emails and then we will make sure to follow up with 10-20 calls to make sure you stay.

Heard of the onam offer? Oh, we have ( apparently sent an intimation to me that I never got ) upgraded you from your current plan to a more expensive plan free of charge. What's onam without us making a bit more money, huh?

Do we need this grief? No.

Is there any other option? No.

And we got some folks telling us Kerala is not business friendly. Pffft. 

What did I learn? Utility will always be the biggest scam. (Water, Electricity, Gas and now Telecom/Internet)

That was my week, how is yours going ?