SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: My Experience with Online Fraud: Dealing with Cyber Police in Delhi, India.
AUTHOR: Few_Falcon6974
DATE: 2024-03-21
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1bjy7fg/my_experience_with_online_fraud_dealing_with/
--- POST TEXT ---

So last Thursday(14.3.2024), I came across an Instagram page through ads, selling Converse shoes. It looked genuine and even offered cash on delivery (COD) as well as the address for the shop. So I didn’t bother much, and paid him 200 in advance, with the remaining amount supposed to be paid at the time of delivery (the product was priced at 1300). At the time of delivery, I insisted on checking the product before paying the remaining amount, but the person declined and said the product is eligible for returns since it’s shipped through Amazon’s shipping network. I was satisfied and went ahead with opening the package, only to find out it was a fraud. I was given duplicate shoes barely costing 200-400 rupees in the local market. When I reached out to the seller, he blocked me.

That was a shock for me, considering I have been cautious most of the time. I tried to reach out to him on the given number, but it was switched, only used for either accepting payments or texting through WhatsApp. The audacity of cybercriminals running business accounts on WhatsApp &amp; Instagram, and running ads to lure victims, is appalling. I wasted no time and filed an e-complaint with @cybercrimebranch. I tried calling 1930, a helpline number for cyber police, at least 8 times, but either the call was dropped or they picked up and hung up on me. I was not satisfied with the actions I took, so I went to the normal police station. They were rude and didn’t even bother to talk, just said, “Formality ke liye ek application likh do, baaki cyber wale hi dekhenge.” I left with disappointment. The next day, I went to the Cybercrime East Delhi branch’s station, asked them about the status of the investigation. Again, the unprofessional behavior, showing me a pile of papers (complaints) that had come in a single day, convincing me that there are bigger cases than these. Nobody does anything because the resources spent behind such cases are not deemed worth it. I still insisted and requested them to look into it. I left again with disappointment, knowing that I was not going to get my money back.

In today’s era, where India is taking big initiatives to promote Digital Bharat and become a global power in the digital world, cybersecurity is still left out on a really big scale.

Scammer’s Instagram page: bootscience_56