SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: Corrective measures &amp; Compensation for privacy invasion and unwanted intrusion of lives by corrupt staff of different agencies roaming frivolously on public expense instead of putting their hands in much needed duties.
AUTHOR: Awesome_Neel
DATE: 2024-08-12
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1eqiobl/corrective_measures_compensation_for_privacy/
--- POST TEXT ---

Since digitisation has increased in last few years so has cyber bullying, which is punishable. While reel making at severe discomfort of others is banned, it is often seen that some folks are videographing people clandestinely, apparantly with malafide intentions of making money at expense of others, or using deep fakes for ulterior motives. Things get ironic when the said happen to be some corrupt staff of Desi agencies especially capturing good looking men &amp; women to sell stuff in dark arena or stalking/stealing snaps of vocal students, businessmen not giving bribes, and non corrupt bureaucrats for ulterior motives/framing upon receiving supari. It only leaves the option to oppose this disturbing trend. Some changes are coming in way of things, but those are papercuts, from a rational perspective. 

Moreover, for these self serving greedy ventures, relatively harmless when compared to barging in some gangsters' den - the funding is right out of public exchecker, apparantly demanded on false threat perception/projection at will, which may better be used to build schools for kids, decent hospitals, shelters, and basic infrastructure for people. How many times, the all knowing so called any of the agencies have opened up a nexus of Corruption or scams? Isn't the answer self explanatory. The answer also indicates passive approval to wrong orders and harming the innocents, not only by the corrupt of the lot, but also by those following orders against humanity, against law of the land. This is what our education lacks, creating slaves.. without any locus standi to do the right thing. 

Well, much is to be done, to enable a happy environment and a culture of helping each other all around. 

It'd be interesting whether Hon'ble Supreme Court might want to take Suo-moto cognizance of grievance redressal for citizens' invaded personal lives and provide a mechanism of requisite compensation. 1 rupee, 5 lakh, 50 lakh, 1 crore? does affected human life has a cost? May be not.

Does humanity has a cost? 

Let's hope not :)