SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kerala
STATE: Kerala
TITLE: Need advice regarding younger brother's career path
AUTHOR: Outside_Aide_1958
DATE: 2023-09-27
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kerala/comments/16swl0b/need_advice_regarding_younger_brothers_career_path/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hello everyone. I have a younger brother, he is almost 25 years old. Currently working in Dubai as an unskilled labourer. I will just brief his life story in a few words. He used to be below average in studies. Somehow passed 10th standard, due to poor marks didn't get seat in plus two allotment for science or commerce. Family wasn't interested in humanities, so sent him to vocational higher secondary. He did air conditioning and refrigeration course there and again just passed. So it was difficult to get seats again for under grad and somehow luckily got a BCA seat in one of the colleges. But he messed it up big this time. Bad friendships, alcoholism, bike rides and all those stuff. Failed the course with 12 supplies. Sat idle at home for nearly a year and because he couldn't bear the cuss words from father, decided to go to Dubai to a relative's company who offered a 'desk job'. Actually it was a scam and the guy was recruiting for a manual job which involved spray painting furnitures and curtains. He went at the age of 22 and now he is almost 25. More than 'stuck', he is comfortable with his job there and don't feel like coming back home or upgrading in career or trying for someother job. I am genuinely worried about him because you know how unkind is the world outside. It won't be a matter of time he will be unemployed and won't be able to find a job because the current job he is doing right now is just a pure unskilled job. I would like to know opinions from you guys on how can I help my brother. I suggested him to come home and do some course properly this time and try for job based on that. But he is least interested. He says he is looking to get a driving license in UAE and then change job and then save enough to start a gym business in Dubai. I don't know how many years he has to work to earn quite a fortune to start a gym business in Dubai. Really worried about his life/career trajectory.