SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kerala
STATE: Kerala
TITLE: Trans women collecting money from passengers inside train
AUTHOR: pranav_ayanikkal
DATE: 2024-07-22
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kerala/comments/1e97g0w/trans_women_collecting_money_from_passengers/
--- POST TEXT ---

Date - 22 July 2024
Time - 11.10 A.M
 Train - 10215 madgaon - ernakulam wekkily express 
Location - somewhere between thanur - thirur 

Saw one transwomen collecting money from passengers in a running train inside kerala . 

She approached me when I was sleeping but I refused to give her money. Then she moved to the next passenger without much conversation. This train is running late by four hours and it's a weekly special. only 10- 20 people are in my coach. I don't know how others are dealing with her or how she is approaching them.

I am a person who has been traveling in trains regularly for the past 13 years. I have never seen a transgender looting money like this inside kerala. 

I am well aware about the money looting by trans people outside kerala in trains or in metro cities. if you are a member in banglore/Hyderabad sub you can read 100s of horrible experiences by trans people looting scam. 

I am not a transphobeic . I am supporting their fight for existence. That is why I am very critical about this kind of act. If the kerala trans community needs acceptance and coexistence they should learn from the mistakes that happen to other state trans communities. Nobody will be happy to give their hard earned money over fear. I saw trans people who work in the Kochi metro, a few of them as costume designers and makeup artists. I personally met a transwoman called Anna a few weeks back who was running her own autorickshaw in eloor. Even I can agree if any of them doing sex work for making a meal. That is their body and their choices. But this kind of activity should be restricted. 

I saw another post in Kerala sub regarding the same issue. So I think I met the same person here. She hides her face with a mask so I can't identify the person again. I am sure that she will get a huge amount of money in a single day, that may attract more trans people to follow here. I am requesting the railway police and kerala railway police and other railway officials to take Strict action against this kind of fraudsters.