SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: Delhi Metro Scam of estimated INR 1000 crore 
AUTHOR: Awesome_Neel
DATE: 2024-08-23
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1ezfsfq/delhi_metro_scam_of_estimated_inr_1000_crore/
--- POST TEXT ---

Disclaimer : corrupt people of involved agencies might dislike.

This is about Delhi Metro Scam to the tune of INR 1000 crore during 2020 to 2024 

(after Covid, post increased unemployment, inflation, misuse of machinery) 

Modus operandi :

a. As per various past news over the years, multiple phone thefts regularly take place in Delhi Metro. Many times, staff and concerned entities who are supposed to be guardians of the said metros running all across Delhi NCR, were found to be linked/passively supporting the thefts. It was clear that, with presence of CCTVs and squads in each coach, theft couldn't happen without the tacit support &amp; approval of the concerned stakeholders. Apparently, the money receipts are distributed amongst them at the loss of common commuters.

(In previous years, repeatedly, some people of staff have been caught supporting thieves)

b. Some additional money receipts are generated through forced content for YouTube, Insta, and Dark net, such as "daily fight videos" created by their linked staff messing with common public, along with "deep fake altered videos" using images of attractive or decent looking men &amp; women traveling without mask, and "fake semi obscene videos" through pushing their linked staff/paid Ladies/escorts, and others in between crowd of men and closing crowd from all directions to create messy situation for content.

c. Further receipts are generated through tip handed in exchange of money &amp; favours by miscellaneous sources "to physically harm some selected targeted individuals" or attempt to "frame them through some allegation/projection in crowd" or "defame them or stalk them using their staff, random entities, and paid men-women". While money and tip received is from corrupt senior Bureaucrats and Some Companies involved in massive illegal recruitment business for example. This is done to silent whistleblowers so that corruption may not be unearthed. 

Who knows, they are on to spreading diseases as well, for ulterior motives. It's sad and unimaginable. 

It has become a death hub with so many accidents at each station. Only awaiting a calamity for total chaos.

Typically observed scenarios are :

1. Artificially created rush of people (including thieves) by delaying Metro Trains at any hour of the day, and the involvement of some corrupt officials with thieves &amp; bad elements, for sake of money/commission.

2. The usuage of paid men &amp; especially ladies around to steal money, forced fight content, framing people &amp; character assisnation etc. From a begger to all kinds of gangsters, global spies, and common people commute in the same thing. 

3. Things were certainly decent in the beginning but gradually getting worsened by people constantly under footages which is acceptable, but their lives being monitored, forced reels, and all kind of things happening.. manufactured in sinister manner is totally unacceptable.

Solution :

1. Public Awareness

2. Compensation demand - 
a. For cyber bullying, 
b. Footage misuse, 
c. Threat/harm to life, 
d. Theft, 
e. Staff stalking or invading space, 
f. Forced reels against will, 
g. Privacy invasion, 
h. Abatement to self harm through any means, 
i. Affected lives etc.
j. Losses pertaining to money/life/peace/others. 

Note: Such modes are only a means of commute, they do not get to affect our lives. We get to choose. We get to correct things as well. So many people are dying on tracks, so may get dragged away despite so called safety mechanisms, and who knows some might be losing lives or abeted to suicedes because of all this sinister web of metro. It's time for things to improve in public interest, and global internet as a matter of humanity. 

Period