SOURCE: Reddit - r/TamilNadu
STATE: Tamil Nadu
TITLE: This rain was not as bad as 2015, there was no winds like in 2018 but dmk made it worst with of their inefficiency.
AUTHOR: kameswara25
DATE: 2023-12-06
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/TamilNadu/comments/18birv6/this_rain_was_not_as_bad_as_2015_there_was_no/
--- POST TEXT ---

I know 2015 was a dark year, the opening of dams at midnight was mandmade and there was more life losses which to till date havent been properly recorded or compensated. 

But I stay In a relatively safer area ( near maduravoyal - nerkundram ).It doesn't flood here unless something very worse happens. Even in 2015 the streets barring a few and the main road looked like pristine with no water stagnation. Power was not cut more than 24 hrs.

I still remember that there was a heavy storm with winds in 18, there were a bunch of trees down withing just 600 mts radius from my house, the corporation, police, volunteers worked from early morning, drenched in rain to give back power within 2 pm. They gave out a message beforehand too. 

There was no problem with any network operators, even after many towers biting the dust. 

This year.

The area is same, little to unaffected but power came back only after 40 hrs. 

Electricity minister first said power will.be restored 2 hrs after rains stop, rains stopped by 9 pm on monday but we got electricity 8 pm tuesday.

The corporation workers didn't visit our street, earlier there was no water stagnation but after new tender they had placed some stupid sewage cover that has no proper holes, we need to clear the blockage everytime it rains, i did it myself when it was raining. 

Earlier the ae in our corp office responded to our queries this ae doesn't give af. Man closes the online complaints himself. TN CM helpline app is a scam.

The eb guys didn't give out any msg regarding when electricity Will be restored. The minnagam seevices was shut down.

We didn't have any network either. Wasn't able to receive phones, no electricity, can go out but 99% of the shops were closed. I needed to go 4kms to get tiffin.

I have never seen poonamallee high road without power for more than day but dmk is making a record lol. 

Absolute shit management of floods, the thing is edapadi managed worse floods than this very better than Stalin. We should write 2015 on eps name. I though I would never say this but eps was a 100x more efficient in these issues than dummy Stalin. This guy knows only to do pr. Some people are saying that networks were down especially internet because Stalin made it so to prevent bad pr, I k ow this might be bogus but seeing how dmk and Stalin pr works, avanga indha maari panna kooda aaludhan.