SOURCE: Reddit - r/Haryana
STATE: Haryana
TITLE: Rant about my aunt (bua).
AUTHOR: Downtown_Hunter_4737
DATE: 2024-04-23
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Haryana/comments/1cazbks/rant_about_my_aunt_bua/
--- POST TEXT ---

Here is an incident I want to share with you:

So it's about the day when her son was getting married.

Her son's marriage was fixed with a girl of a family they knew before. Me and my father were given the charge of finding best catering and food counter owner (coz we have some similar business and we are in regular contact). We just made many of them give demo to my aunt's family. They selected one of them and he agreed on some xx lakh amount of money. But they somehow didn't trust our recommendation and to just cross check the actual market rate, they asked some other person and that was costing them more around 1.3 times. 

Then they started questioning my father that what if that person ends up as a fraud and the he uses low quality material. To just cross check we randomly crashed at a wedding for which that exact person had contract. Ye you heard it right. That much we did.(Obv we told the family as soon we entered their celebration)

Now came the day. There is thing called bhaat here according to which brothers give financial support to his sister on her kid's wedding , that day. They gave the time of celebration to start at some time in noon and till night. But they started to make a chaos 1 hour before the decided time that it's late. Starters were ready but main course was a bit not ready. They blamed my father and that boy (my cousin) didn't even talk to my father just blamed him and went away. My father was stressed af. He didn't eat even a single piece and was planning to come home in between after telling my uncle (tau ji). He was waiting for him and I observed he was stressed. I went there and asked what happened. He told me all the shit that happened and I also got really pissed. Me and my brother also came home along with him. It created immediate unrest among people that what happened and that lady didn't give a FK. Next day, (baarat day) my uncle somehow convinced my father to be a part of the celebration. We all agreed and went there but the same response, nothing. We somehow managed to stay there till all the customs related to us get completed. And we just came immediately.

That day, every situation tested my patience. Coz my cousin's ex came to attend his wedding. Only me, his sister, my father and my brother know about her. And that girl pretended to be his college batchmate.We just somehow managed to not open our mouth. She was drunk and thankfully (for her only) she didn't misbehaved with us.