SOURCE: Reddit - r/Bihar
STATE: Bihar
TITLE: I worked as a teacher in G D Goenka Public School, Lalgarh,Bettiah,Bihar. Worst experience of my life.
AUTHOR: canthidethisshit
DATE: 2025-03-06
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bihar/comments/1j4br2k/i_worked_as_a_teacher_in_g_d_goenka_public_school/
--- POST TEXT ---

G D Goenka Public School is a reputed brand of school , but the Bettiah branch is just hell.
I joined this branch only because it was associated with a big brand name and i was going to learn many things but it didn't turn out as I thought It would.

This branch is operated by Pinu bhaiya ( a local gangster and brother of Renu devi ,who is a politician/minister of some sorts) and his wife Sharadha. 

And the admin staff are their right hand (Sandeep Singh, Shashikant Sharma, Rahul Singh,Jata Shankar) . These four are the admin staff and they are close friends they know each other since childhood.

Now when it comes to teachers ,other staffs , Students and , parents. They all are treated very badly.

I worked here as a teacher for more than 6 months and the horrors I witnessed is beyond humane.

Before joining they communicated very professionally so I was happy that I was going to work with a big brand and learn so many things but when I joined the reality Start hitting every day.

I am from Uttar Pradesh. I have never visited bihar before and only heard about bihar from news and same made up stories of my friends and familiars . So I have a very narrow image of bihar in my mind. But I asked to myself "how bad it can be?"
I didn't know that I was going straight to hell.(Here I am not referring bihar as hell but the school and the management).

Rules that I had to face every day as a teacher:-

1. We weren't allowed to go outside the campus. For daily use things or anything that we need, we were allowed to go outside only on Wednesday and Sunday that to for 3 hours only and one time with a compulsory gate pass and we had to share our live location with them all time.

2. Females were allowed only one day for outing, on Sundays and only for 2 hours.

3. In any condition two person (either male or female) are not allowed to leave the campus together.

4. We can't talk to each other. Even after school hours. ( They had installed camera every where which had audio video recording 24*7). If caught doing so we were forced to pay 1000₹ fine.

5. We were not allowed to leave our rooms during non - school hours.

6. 1 minute late directly resulted to ₹1000 fine .

7. No relatives or friends can visit us at any time.

8. Our phone were submitted every day, we were asked to give our family the reception phone number so they can contact us during emergency but the school only inform us about any call done by our family only after school hours.

9. No Casual leaves , no medical leave, no emergency leave. Means we weren't allowed to ask for any leave, once you are in your area stuck there.

10. Our phone were checked on a regular basis by the director (Sharadha)herself to see if we (teachers) are communicating through social media.
If caught then again fined ₹5000.

11. Salary credit after 10th of every month. That too after tons of deductions.

12. We were not included in any photos or videos and not allowed to post anything related to school on social media.

13. Director had a 17-18 years old son , all the male teachers were forced to play cricket with him x whenever he wanted, no excuses from teachers were intertained.

And a lot more bullshit rules like this.

Our only escape was to wait for a long holiday like , Diwali , summer vacation and pack our things and leave and never come back. 

Some female teachers had to call police then only the management let them leave the campus.

More than 100 teachers quit this school in a year, they all left there 2-3 months salary, because the school refused to give them.

 

Me and several other teachers complained about this to the Police but no action taken till now. 

Recently Pinu bhaiya was caught on CCTV camera kidnapping a person and let me tell you this was not his first kidnapping, but thanks to Tejasvi yadav this matter came to light and police arrested him. 

His wife was also involved in the kidnapping but she was not arrested. 

They used the school building to hide the victims.

The school is running just fine.

Note:- I want to clarify that I'm not implying that Bihar is a bad place, I met many amazing people here who helped me escape.

My main purpose of sharing this experience to spread awareness about this place and also tell people that this is happening so no one else suffer as I and many people did .