SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: Worst experience in Delhi on my very first visit
AUTHOR: iooiyt
DATE: 2023-08-04
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/15i5ge1/worst_experience_in_delhi_on_my_very_first_visit/
--- POST TEXT ---

I am from lucknow and i have got admission in Hansraj College DU... So i came to Delhi with my father to organise my accommodation.... 

So we boarded a private Bus( booked ) to Delhi from Lucknow and we reached Delhi by early morning .... And this bus returned the same day in evening we had given the Bus driver an advance for our return .... 

I got my accommodation fixed and we were returning to the private bus stop (and we were very new to Delhi) at Anand Vihar as we approached the road to private bus on foot a broker (of big and muscular build) came (we didn't know that he was a broker) 
and he asked our destination so we told him and the he was suddenly forcing us to use his bus service we were hesitant but he became rude and started manhandling us to his service shop and began spitting abusive words... 
My father tried to call the police but he snatched his phone and said"kisko phone lagayega....
Laga abhi tera phone patakta hu.... " We told him that we have already booked tha bus already but he was asking rudely to book his bus service.... 
We were helpless we tried to get help of the shop owners and people passing by but everyone just supported him and asked us to compile to his rude behavior.... 
I was in shock ! ....
He and his friends gave us mental trauma and abusive words for 1hr.... I was so helpless that i couldn't even call the police and the broker (actually a criminal) could do anything (literally anything) to us in public.... 
Finally I broke from inside when I saw them manhandling my father, abusing and threatening him..... I began ro cry and then only the left us...... 

Now we reached our bus and i was still crying.... 
And i searched about the Anand vihar in google i got this.... -image shown above

I was unaware that in my country's own capital people could face such criminal acts in the very public places.... 

But ihave learnt leassons and i have now identified certain areas which are least safe areas to stay away from them in my college life in Delhi... 

Also when checked that broker shop's review on ggl maps everyone has reported fraud and misbehaviour.... 
But police and government has not been acknowledging this.... 

 TLDR :' Guys I am new to Delhi.... 
If you could share some safety tips and tricks in the comments section ... 🥲