SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: Am I committing a crime by feeding street dogs?
AUTHOR: CrankyHufflepuff
DATE: 2021-05-13
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/nbbf1x/am_i_committing_a_crime_by_feeding_street_dogs/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hi, please read and tell me if I'm doing a sin by feeding any animal.

Some families (well-off and landlords) are harassing me and my mother to extreme extents. We live in a rented house,so they hate us for being able to be poorer than them to not own a house and still be able to feed strays.

They openly threat killing stray dogs, because they potty. (And we clean if any of stray who we feed or stay outside our house potty).
But they are after our and dogs blood, even if some othwr stray from poops.

They blame us for all the dog poop. And threat us to not feed anyone.
If our not feeding would stop the pooping, we would stop.

The harassment is too much, now I'm not just worried for dogs lives but wellbeing of my own family too. The son of a man shouting at is came barging at our door, and that was very threatening.
I've submitted online police complaint yesterday but nothing has happened so far.

Background: 
Since last March, I had been,on and off, feeding stray dogs in my neighborhood. There was a litter, got them adopted and one of the pup had parvovirus, so i got her treated.
Being a responsible animal lover, I got the female dog sterilized, she's friendly so I was able to carry her to Frendicoes. (All at my own expense)
And there's a street dog, who sits outside our home, we give her food.
We give them food at our place,or where ever they reside (following the protocol to feed strays in a confined area).
None of them are scary or bite anyone, all are friendly and mind their busi.

There are plenty other strays, outside street whom we don't feed but they pass by street often.
I feed every animal, when there's food left for them, including cows. And they don't have problem with cow dung ik the street but dog poop, they say feeding a cow and a dog are different things. Implying that we are doing a sin by feeding dogs.

And I thought, feeding anyone hungry, animal or human was a sign of humanity itself.