SOURCE: Reddit - r/Maharashtra
STATE: Maharashtra
TITLE: If they keep complaining about EVMs, they will never find the real cause of their election rout
AUTHOR: EffectiveMonitor4596
DATE: 2024-12-01
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Maharashtra/comments/1h46hx2/if_they_keep_complaining_about_evms_they_will/
--- POST TEXT ---

A healthy democracy needs a respectable opposition that takes up people's issues. The MVA has lost these elections real bad and are not accepting their defeat in a good spirit, blaming EVMs, election commission, etc. They need to introspect the reasons why they lost so they can improve on them and come back stronger the next time.
Here are some reasons they can improve on. 

1. Stop casteist politics in Hindus while pandering to minorities with too much pseudo secularism. 
2. Stop opposing all development projects and then blame neighboring states for 'stealing' projects. Nanar refinery project has gotten cancelled from Maharastra and is going to either GJ or AP due to strong opposition by last MVA CM.
3. Dynastic politics - The NDA has levels of dynastic politics in localized areas but not at top level - nobody knows Atalji, Advani, Modi, Amit Shah, DF, Yogi, Rajnath Singh's fathers or mothers. Democracies don't work on dynastic leadership.
4. Anti development politics - your leaders talk about caste, religion, constitution, adhikaar, etc. everyday. Try giving a vision on rail, road, aviation, digital, and lot more infrastructure, healthcare, education, etc that the country is aspiring for. 
5. You can't protect democracy by beating navy officer for a Facebook post, abducting and thrashing a Marathi manoos at a minister's house in middle of pandemic lockdown for a meme, arresting a journalist for harmless opposing views, shaving people's heads for opposing opinions, etc. You can't protect democracy by asking names to ECI officers checking your bags on duty.

Try improvising on all these points and behave better for the next 5 years and hope to improve your vote count by winning people's hearts. As citizens, we do not want to keep voting NDA forever.