SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: Received call from scammers
AUTHOR: iG_serialkiller
DATE: 2024-09-25
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1fp87c9/received_call_from_scammers/
--- POST TEXT ---

Received a scam call on Monday on my both numbers. The person was claiming that he is an Inspector from Delhi Customs and they found 140gms of MDMA along with passports and ATM from a shipment that was being sent to Malaysia from Delhi and had my name and number on it. I was fully aware of these type of scams also I myself was working in Delhi Customs and only recently transferred in August.
I played along he transferred my call to Delhi police. The person started threatening me and telling me that they had to book a case against me on distance basis as I was not available in Delhi at that time. They asked me to report in the Vasant Kunj Police station . This went on for half an hour. I told him that " meri aap 2 line suno phle". And I told him the starting 4 lines of the " Teri G****d me Danda de". He got really offended.He told me that talk me my superior. I told him that I am working in the delhi customs itself and that he can search my name on the website. 

One interesting thing came out of the conversation " 3-4 people were talking to me at the same time. It appeared that they were in the same room". I was telling them you guys get our number from different websites, shopping counters and that you even scam poor person. one person said k hum poor k saath scam nhi krte and aapko nhi pta k Hume number kese milte h and aapka number humein kisne diya and then told me some guy name Vinod gave him my number. I don't know any such guy. Also I am very sure that he also don't know me because if he knew he would have also known that I myself am a customs officer so no chance of this scam.

One thing came to my mind that on Sunday one parcel was delivered at my home address through Delhivery and the address had both of my numbers. I got calls on both my numbers on Monday. Is it possible that the delhivery guy disclosed my number to these scammers?