SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kerala
STATE: Kerala
TITLE: Thoughts on InfinQx.ai.
AUTHOR: Familiar_Pizza_7070
DATE: 2025-03-25
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kerala/comments/1jiyz7x/thoughts_on_infinqxai/
--- POST TEXT ---

Some of my relatives have invested with InfinQx.AI. They are offering returns way above market rate and it was even more a few months back but for some reason which they have not disclosed have been cut down by almost 50%. This happened after the news of crypto going down against the expectation after Trump came into power came out.
 
As far as i understood, they invest money in Forex, Crypto and related NFT trades and gives return. However, them being vague about how exactly they do that and the changes in rate of return has got me suspicious. The people who have invested in this are int heir 40s and 50s and are people who hold pretty decent education meaning they don’t have a lot of trouble understanding the business. Despite that, there is a veil of mystery around it and honestly i think they are keeping quiet because they are getting good returns like a couple of them got returns exceeding the principal amount they invested within 2 years. All of them went into it on word of mouth publicity and are joined in it by middlemen working on behalf of the site.
Also to withdraw the returns, they have to wait for to accrue to to 10 dollars (similar crypto something currency) and then transfer it to the middle men’s account and they will convert it at spot rate and cut a percent of commission and credit the INR in the investor’s bank account.
Now there has been some issues with the site and the middlemen keep saying that the site is under maintenance and people are not able to withdraw their earnings however they have no problem accepting deposits. From the communications (chats) with these “agents” i think either they don’t really have an idea and are in it for the money or they are actually doing shady shit and they are in it for a lot more money. They have also started other crypto and forex trading platforms and are actively pushing for more investments while not letting the investors withdraw their returns. As expected the people who invested are now panicking and scrambling as their source of solid income has come to a halt. 
I am honestly intrigued about this, the returns definitely as suspicious but a good number of people have gotten enormous profit out of it. Also tax implications of this are also vague, none of the people have gotten and IT notifications as far as i know and they haven’t really invested a lot anyways but the returns should amount to taxable income and i believe they have submitted their PAN and KYC on joining the platform but there are people who have invested 10 Lakhs and above (from the whatsapp grp for investors) but i am yet to reach out to them. I also have not personally communicated with the “agents” but the way they talk is they redirect every question to the claim that at the end of the day they gave huge payouts which they have in the past. It sounds similar to those MLMs targeting housewives and all they have to say is they are “empowering women” for any and every question while dodging the actual question.
Does anybody know anything about this site/app and is it a scam like Ponzi or money chain? Are the investors unknowingly contributing to something they unethical?