SOURCE: Reddit - r/JammuandKashmir
STATE: Jammu and Kashmir
TITLE: Guys, help needed. What should be my way forward here?
AUTHOR: Left_Nut_Of_Doraemon
DATE: 2025-04-15
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/JammuandKashmir/comments/1jzn78v/guys_help_needed_what_should_be_my_way_forward/
--- POST TEXT ---

So, I went to join a college out of state about six months ago and shared a room with a guy who seemed pretty decent. And he was, of course. Everything was going pretty well initially, neither did he disturb me, nor did I disturb him.

But around three months ago, when I returned from the playground, he told me he wanted his girlfriend to stay with him, so she would move in. I'm a pretty introverted guy, and although signs of resentment were on my face, I couldn't clearly deny him. Instead, I said it might cause problems and so on.

A few days later, when I came back from classes, I saw the whole arrangement of the room changed. He had pushed all my stuff and bed towards one side, the one with no windows, while occupying the rest. Lightning struck me when I saw his girlfriend there, as if him shifting my stuff to the side with no windows, wasn’t enough. His side had a huge window, and the toilet was on his side, although bathroom was on mine. Yet, I somehow put on a fake smile while I was dying inside.

Since that day, my life became more and more difficult with each passing day. I would sit on my bed trying to focus on my studies, but then I’d hear him and his girlfriend chattering, and it drove me insane. I even asked him to stop, but he would play the victim card, saying I was overreacting. Even when I would lay down to sleep after turning off the lights, I would hear them talking in a way that made me feel disgusted.

Some days later, I dropped my introverted nature and rudely told him this couldn’t go on like this. He didn’t even reply and left the room. Three days later, when I came back from classes, I saw the room transformed yet again. He had put up a plywood sheet between my portion and his, leaving space only for one person to enter, as the bathroom and toilet were on opposite sides.

Now, due to my introverted nature and social anxiety, I started using the bathroom on my side for the deed. But I didn’t want them hearing me go into the bathroom for no reason, by splashing water, so I did something that has caused this problem. Let me explain, I’ve been cumming in my roommate’s girlfriend’s body wash because, as I said, they’re annoying as fuck. For about two months, I’d jerk off, open the pump, dump it in, and give it a good shake.

Recently, he told me her period was super late, so they took a pregnancy test, and she’s knocked up. He said, “I trust her. I guess a condom ripped, or I don’t know”, and they’re going to raise it. We have a year left on the lease. The problem is, I’m fair, and they’re black af.

What are the chances I’m the dad?