SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: You are responsible for getting scammed, Stop acting like a Victim
AUTHOR: shameless_infant
DATE: 2023-07-18
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/152r7jd/you_are_responsible_for_getting_scammed_stop/
--- POST TEXT ---

Alright, alright..I get it, guys here are so desperate for female interaction &amp; now even relying on Online Dating, 'which hardly works for common people, no matter how good looking you are, even if you get a date. The relationship hardly lasts a month or the girl you meet hardly has any personality.' but that's whole other side.
So chances of making a meaningful relationship through Dating Apps is one in thousands. 

All the guys getting Scammed are biggest losers and cowards I'm gonna say in the world !!!
Look at yourself, why'd a girl want to go out with you when you can't take a stand for yourself, How you gonna take a stand for her !!

1. You match with one girl on a Dating App, sets up a date, but some other girl shows up !! Can't you guys speak up for yourself who she is, what's she doing with you , you are not attracted towards her. 
Alright you don't want to be rude , what a nice guy you are.

2. You go to a Restaurant of her choice !! How I mean how do you even follow a stranger to a Restaurant, she's not that girl you matched with, even if it's the same girl you guys are hanging out together can't you tease a bit that very same girl playfully, that it looks like it was always a dream for you that a girl's gonna take you out. Or you guys just keep your mouth shut..

3. What kinda dumbass guy allow the girl he's with to get drunk on first date ??? C'mon dude , seriously. You get drunk with a girl you are comfortable and familiar, Tu BC pehli baar mil raha hai us se , Daaru Peelane k liye.. Kya Gandu hai , First date is all about communication and getting to know each other. Or do you guys wet yourself in front of girls ??? 

I'm kinda curious too to know how your head really works.

Mark my words if you guys didn't change your attitude &amp; behaviour. Even your wife's gonna cheat on you with another man. learn to be a man or keep crying for getting scam like a pussy..