SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: Got scammed at dwarka sector 13 metro station.
AUTHOR: Radiant-Front7492
DATE: 2024-12-15
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1heu8ma/got_scammed_at_dwarka_sector_13_metro_station/
--- POST TEXT ---

So today I was going to dwarka to see my relatives in the hospital when I reached the dwarka sector 13 metro station there this man introducing himself as (HITESH PANDEY) came to me asking for 400 rupees saying he is a national athlete in the immediate need of cash as he forget his wallet at home . At first it sounded fishy to me so I started to inquire about it to check whether he was telling a lie or not . Then he showed me his picture receiving cash price in the form of a big cheque like we see in the reality show . And then he showed me his picture in sports attire running, and he even showed me his picture in the news (definitely it was edited). And he was constant contactly saying things like ("main national athlete hu", "bhaiya main wapis kar dunga").

And then I fell into his trap and gave him only cash I have with me which was 200 rupees he even miscalled me which increased my trust in him even more. And he told me ("main 3 baje tak apko wapis kar dunga ") around 3 :00 PM I called him then he told me (main 6 baje tak. Wapis kar dunga sorry bhaiya) then I also believed him . When I called him around 6:00 PM he didn't pick up my call and after a few tries he told me ("bhaiya ghar jakar de dunga main abhi raste main hu sorry sorry ") and then cut the call . Since then I have tried multiple times but I always say busy .

I don't know why I got easily trapped in his trap and believed his fake story when searching for his number on Truecaller. it shows (HITESH PANDEY ATHLETE METRO) without me saving it . Which tells me that I am not the first one in his trap as Truecaller shows the name based on the name saved by contact of that number . 

I know it's my mistake but I don't want anyone of you to suffer it like me so I am mentioning his phone number so that you can report it as fraud. Maybe it will help anyone .