SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kerala
STATE: Kerala
TITLE: Which is the Best Courier Service For Ecommerce in Kerala?
AUTHOR: hornybasturd3197
DATE: 2022-12-18
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kerala/comments/zoztdk/which_is_the_best_courier_service_for_ecommerce/
--- POST TEXT ---

Guys, I started a Personalized Gift Website business about a year ago. I also sell on Amazon. But from that time i realized the courier services in Kerala are so bad. I tried various courier service. 

Delhivery, Earlier they were great, But now For 4 out of 10 booking i have to go to their office (Which is nearly 10 km away from my place). which is problematic for me.

Once a return was coming from a fake buyer who literally denied the order without receiving the order or opening the order. I received the return from delhivery but instead of the mug that i sent. Delhivery guys messed up the delivery and literally returned the 2-3 kg prawn pickle box to me and delivered my mug to the person who was supposed to receive that pickle box. This is how horrendous their service are.

I tried DTDC, if you not live in city than they won't deliver it to you. They will call the customer to office and from their my customer has to pick up. my customers didn't liked this because sometime offices are too far from their house. 

India Post, Once i shipped the photo cup which is a fragile item through them they didn't handled the parcel well and the customer received the mug in broken condition. I lost the customer because of them. I also had to give the refund.

Ecom express, Once i sent the courier through them they took 9 days to deliver in orissa (which is too long for the customer and for our promised time).

Ekart, I tried ekart 2 times, i thought its a service by flipkart they can deliver my product on time. But both the time i received the complaint from the customers that Ekart didn't called them and without calling them they marked that customer was not available. They don't even call the customer in first delivery attempt if a courier is not coming from flipkart and sent by a third party company or Independent sellers like me.

Bluedart, they don't pickup from my area and have office too far from my place.

Our quality is great and we improved our product qualities alot since last year but every customer that we lost till now, We lost because of the courier companies irresponsibilities. I am not able to understand Why all courier companies are so horrible in Kerala or atleast in my place?

If you run a ecommerce business than how do you book courier and which company do you use?