SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kerala
STATE: Kerala
TITLE: What are your views on kerala police?
AUTHOR: ArtElevatedX
DATE: 2023-08-11
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kerala/comments/15ob2c4/what_are_your_views_on_kerala_police/
--- POST TEXT ---

The thing that I'm posting this is recently ( yesterday ) one of my uncles was arrested for touching a girl on her leg ( this is what I was told by my veeetukar).Since he is my uncle and I know him I was rather surprised by the news, I couldn't believe he is the type of guy capable of doing that ( He barely even talk to strangers and his naatukar ). When I got to the police station he was in lockup ( shirtless ) I couldn't even bear seeing him like that.My aunt was crying on the bench inside the police station. I asked my dad what happened since he's there since the morning and he was trying his best to get his brother out ( without even letting me know, I was told this thing by the evening yesterday ). Dad said there have been three girls with their friends who have complained to the police about this. They have been said that my uncle had touched them inappropriately when they were walking on the footpath. So along with a few boys from their friend circle and dew faculties from their school, they came to the worksite where my uncle was changing his dress to his work clothes. They grabbed him for slapping &amp; something ( yk what I mean ). That s when the police came and arrested him.

By afternoon when his (uncle's) ward member and some other guys who were in politics had approached school and the police station ( like I said he had no history of being inappropriate ). The parents of the girl decided to cancel the case \[ this is when the things that motivated me to write this post come in \]. So when the girl tried to cancel the case the SI said that if they cancel it SI would file a case himself and told them my uncle is doing this stuff regularly.

The thing is almost everyone in my family is pride-centered so being in police station locked up would affect the family's reputation which impact even the uncle's family's existence itself. So yesterday they arrested my uncle about 8:30 in the morning and filed a case around noon they didn't even bring him to the court that yesterday and told us to get a good lawyer, so he stayed in the lockup till today. So when I got to the police station he was staying locked up didn't eat anything because of the humiliation he faced.

That's when I asked a police officer about the CCTV cams around the junction where the victim said this happened. And he said "Ningal poi recording ediuthond va nokkam" with a not-so-pleasant and not-so-interested tone (I guess the investigating part was done by the police not the civilians). And after another half an hour enquiring he said they are soo f\*cking sure that my uncle had done that and he does that every day and pointed at another officer and said in a previous case they had pursued my uncle and "appo pinne ang veruthe vittatha".

After hearing that tbh I was confused why did they say such thing when I looked back Uncle was there inside the cell about to burst into tears. I got out not wanting to stay in that situation for too long. outside was my cousin/ uncle's son ( recently engaged to his gf and working at an airline company ). By that time he had hired a good lawyer and was ready to go to hearing and fight this lawfully.

when I was typing this me &amp; Dad had gone to police station and checked the status. To our surprise uncle was still there in the lockup ( they had said that they'll bring him to court at 6 pm and the time was 7 pm) asked the same policeman why didn't they take him to court. He said "Aa kondpovum..." and refused to explain what was happening.

I was devastated.... wtf is happening If he even was the culprit ( which I strongly believe he isn't) does one have to spend this much time in lockup?

Update (12:11 am 8/12 ): They had brought him up to the judge's house around 9 pm yesterday...

He's in remand right now

Update (10:06 pm 8/12 ): There have been some details they took a photo when they grabbed him from the worksite and that is the only digital proof they have. The 2/3 girls had withdrawn the case but he's now in remand as the 1 girl who refused to withdraw ( her parents didn't even come to police station and she's backed up by the school and locals to proceed ). Uncle is remanded for 14 days