SOURCE: Reddit - r/Goa
STATE: Goa
TITLE: Honest two years experience in goa.
AUTHOR: Necessary_Specific82
DATE: 2024-12-15
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Goa/comments/1henxmx/honest_two_years_experience_in_goa/
--- POST TEXT ---

Everyone hates being far from home, and being a public sector enterprise employee I knew I had to, I still remember when two years back I got my transfer letter, and it was some random place in south goa, I didn't even recognised the place, searched my workplace on Google maps and even it was wrong, I landed in evening and cab dropped me at a stranded place with nothing just bushes nearby, but I heard the song played by waves nearby. I realised I am near a beach. It was dark and peak monsoon was on, covered in rain I managed somehow till I joined office next day. Initial days were hard, I just used to be at home on weekends, because it was raining heavily. Had no vehicle that time, and no public transport in this part of goa, had to walk 3kms daily to office. Was scared to try any new food and only one or two options I was living on pasta made in my electric kettle,
Then things got better and I started enjoying at this place, people get jealous of me that I got posting here but it's not easy, nearest petrol pump is 7kms from my place, no emergency services, and forget anything on Sunday or at night, you have to bribe(I had to sit on highway for 3-4 hrs when my scooter's engine siezed near on zuari bridge and ultimately got it fixed when I called someone of my workplace from vasco), shopkeepers still try to scam me, because they think I am tourist, but it's better now since people know me here due to my work, keeping aside this part, the place is beautiful, people are nice, they try to help, they are innocent. I used to take locals wrong initially that they hate outsiders and tourists, but yea after living here this long I even hate people creating nuisance in the name of fun. One should respect the unsaid protocols of the place, and the place I reside is peaceful, even I hate someone interrupting that. And being honest, watching someone wearing sunglasses at dusk with coconut tree print clothes is seriously disturbing 🥲, I wish people had civic sense, it is disheartening to see wrappers and beer cans thrown even at the beautiful hidden , lesser known places of goa. I do have a certain time period which I'll serve here in this posting, it's going to end in one more year, I am surely going to miss goa.

And that video is just me watching sunset at a beautiful cliff of south goa , don't want to reveal location so you don't throw your beer cans and cigarette butts there.