SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kerala
STATE: Kerala
TITLE: Unicef scam MLM/pyramid scheme company working in kochi(stay away from them)
AUTHOR: SnooPickles161
DATE: 2025-04-02
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kerala/comments/1jppe65/unicef_scam_mlmpyramid_scheme_company_working_in/
--- POST TEXT ---

I was free today so thought to practice my interview skills,i applied on naukri a day before and then was called today to the company called naval incorporation in edapally for walk in interview.
I'm going to narrate the story so that the gullible youth can stay away from this kind of scams

1️⃣I entered the office and at the reception I was received by 2 young beautiful ladies of 25-27 years 
Then collected my resume a made to Wait for 30min with the other 14 people who where the for job. The thing was they strictly prohibited from speaking to other candidates.(This raised a alarm in my head)me being a stubborn person talked never the less but every time I spoke the ladies tried their best to not let the other person speak.

2️⃣Then they took us to a cabin with a round table inbetween made us sit and then came the what they called the managing director dhandu,he spoke complete bullshit in funny way making it seem genuine regarding marketing ,said" Bill gates said if he had not succeed in Microsoft he would have done direct marketing to become a billionaire " and said you'll have freedom, money, luxury etc.if you become part of us. By this time many of the candidates already started to butter the guy to take them.

3️⃣Then the MD said we are going to conduct group discussion and asked for topics from the candidates, I gave a few tough ones like state's control on individual freedom, censorship against journalist, authors and movie makers etc out of all these this guy took social media advantage and disadvantages.

4️⃣then one of the beautiful lady came and started explaining what work they do, she said you will be joining at level 1 with a title of business associate and work in sales and marketing then level 2 HR then level 3 finance then level 4 admin then level 5 business owner were you will be establish your own office recruit people then work for charitable clients like unicef under their company and this keeps on going.
Told that each level last 6months.
This company has 5 of company working under them and they themselves are under some other company. This made me realise that this thing is a scam and not worth effort.
Then she showed us on how to pitch unicef donation to people in pvr/parks/airport etc.then talked about how serious she is about saving babies in india , talked how serious she is about earning money. By then I got to know her fake, greedy nature under that hotness of her.

5️⃣then said there will be one on one interview with the MD.They started to call candidates one by one from the cabin. we all were sitting in the cabin and amidst this there was a lady kept specifically appointed inside the cabin so that we don't speak to eachother.
Also ensured that after the interview endee the candidate was directly sent out of the office and started the next interview once they confirmed that the previous guy/gal left. (So that no one contacts eachother afterwards.)

7️⃣then my interview came I gave my fake tragic backstory and showed him that I'm really desperate to join the company , then he said like "I will give you 28k then 30k then 50k then 80k as you progress in our company andI think that you have the potential" ( this was his trick to make me work for him actually would be paying peanuts) then he shook my hands with grin on face, i shook hand with bigger grin on my face and left.

I felt bad that their were many fresh graduates coming from far to kochi for this work and getting brainwashed by this company by stating that they will become rich, independent.
They will make them work long hours and for every donation they take , the big portion of it is going to the boss and they will get some 10%.

Note:The other company they have is mettle mind , focus organisations,
TanaX rest i forgot.
Please stay away from this kind of scams and invest time in quality education and skills