SOURCE: Reddit - r/Bihar
STATE: Bihar
TITLE: Forgotten glory days of lalu in bihar
AUTHOR: [deleted]
DATE: 2024-02-04
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/bihar/comments/1aii8c9/forgotten_glory_days_of_lalu_in_bihar/
--- POST TEXT ---

TLDR :

sabko pata hai laluk bare me ut not lot of people know gruesome details

Detailed answer : 
From 1990 to 2005 Lalu Prasad Yadav ruled Bihar directly or by proxy.
It was heaven for criminals and hell for the common man.
Lalu supported everything right from Maoists to murderers to rapists to kidnappers awarding even election tickets to some of them.
Let's visit the Horrors of the so-called messiah of the poor, heroes of sold-outs like Khanumarfa, Ravish Kumar Sakshijoshii Vinod Kapri, Barkha Dutt and so many more.

1. IAS Officer G Krishnaiah murder

Krishnaiah, who hailed from Telangana, was beaten to death by a mob in 1994 when his vehicle tried to overtake the funeral procession of gangster Chhotan Shukla in Muzaffarpur district.

He joined the coveted Indian Administrative Service (IAS) in 1985. In Bihar, where he was posted, the IAS officer was a huge hit among the poor and he made it a point to meet them every day to discuss their issues.

His first posting was in West Champaran, which was considered to be a hotbed of feared dacoits and kidnappers. According to his colleagues, Krishnaiah did a commendable job on land reforms, despite hurdles put up by the local landlords. It

In 1994, he was made the District Magistrate of Gopalganj. It was here that his life took a fatal turn. Violence broke out during Chhotan Shukla’s funeral cortege and a blood-baying mob of thousands, led by (now-defunct) BPP founder and Anand Mohan, attacked the car of Krishnaiah, who was returning to Gopalganj after attending a special meeting.

The IAS officer was pulled out of the car by the mob and was thrashed, stoned and shot dead. Anand Mohan was then convicted in the 1994 murder of Krishnaiah.

On April 10, 2023, the Bihar government tweaked the Prison Manual, 2012, making changes to Rule 481 to facilitate Mohan's release. The state government's official notification ordered the release of 26 other prisoners who had served between 14 and 20 years in jail.

2. IAS officer BB Biswas’ wife Champa Biswas alleged that Mritunjay Yadav son of the RJD Leader Hemlata Yadav and his friends raped not only her but also her mother, her two maidservants, her sister-in-law and Biswas’ niece Kalyani between 1996 and 1997.

BB Vishwas, a 1982 batch IAS officer, was the Director of Social Security in the Labor Department of Bihar at that time.

They were “subjected to sexual exploitation with criminal coercion and intimidation, rapes with violence, seduction and inducements through promises of government jobs”, she stated in her complaint with NHRC and Then Bihar Governor.

Champa Biswas also claimed that she had undergone one abortion and subsequently opted for sterilisation “to avoid pregnancy due to repeated rape“. She expressed fears that Kalyani and two maidservants, who have since disappeared, may have committed suicide or been murdered. Acting on the complaint, the governor has requested the Union Home Ministry to take prompt action against the accused.

Mrityunjay’s mother, Hemlata Yadav, was also an MLA, and she was the chairperson of the Bihar Social Welfare Advisory Board.

While Mritunjay had written a biography of Lalu Prasad Yadav and he was very active with RJD.

Below is the link to the court order passed in the ChamptoBiswas rape case

(Mritunjaythe Kumar Yadav @ Babloo vs State Of Bihar on 21 May 2010)

3. Taslimuddin - Favourite cronies of Lalu Yadav

The MP faced at least 16 cases of robbery, arson, rape and dacoity. One FIR on wrongful confinement, lodged under IPC 342, quotes an eyewitness as saying that the MP and two associates brought a young Santhali girl home, drank alcohol and "then did the wrong things with the girl all night".

In the year 1996, in the government of HD Deve Gowda, he was a Union Minister of State for Home Affairs at the behest of Lalu Prasad Yadav. He was Minister of Agriculture and Minister of State in the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution from 2004 to 2009 in Manmohan Singh's government.

Manmohan Singh defended all Bihar leaders with criminal histories, in his cabinet by stating that:

Till they are convicted

They are presumed to be innocent...!!

(Outlook India - India's Best Magazine| Find Latest News, Top Headlines, Live Updates)

4. Shilpi Jain rape and murder

This story is about Shilpi Gautam Murder Case, one of the most talked about and unsolved cases in Bihar. On 5 August 1997, during the hearing of a petition, the Patna High Court had called Bihar a jungle raj for the first time. Then, the Patna High Court said that therno a government but a jungle raj was running Bihar, this story is also from the same period.

At that time, Lalu Prasad Yadav had to lose the post of Chief Minister in the fodder scam case and place of Lalu Yadav, his wife Rabri Devi was installed on the throne of Bihar. When Rabri Devi became the Chief Minister, the influence of her brother i.e. Lalu Yadav's brother-in-law Sadhu Yadav increased in the politics of Bihar.

Sadhu Yadav was at that time MLA from RJD's Gopalganj constituency. At that time, there was a wave of RJD in Bihar, so many people wanted to join RJD, especially Sadhu Yadav because he was the brother of Chief Minister Rabri Devi and at that time he had a lot of influence in the party. At the same time, a young man joined the youth wing of RJD to improve his future in Bihar politics. The name of this 27-year-old young man was Gautam Singh, Gautam's father's name was Dr. B N Singh. Dr B N Singh lived in London with his family.

At the same time, a young man joined the youth wing of RJD to improve his future in Bihar politics. The name of this 27-year-old young man was Gautam Singh, Gautam's father's name was Dr. B N Singh. Dr B N Singh lived in London with his family. There is very little information available about Gautam Singh and his family, it has been claimed in many news reports that Gautam's father Dr. BN Singh had good relations with many big politicians of RJD.

Dr BN Singh's son Gautam Singh was learning the tricks of politics while staying away from his family in Patna and pursuing his career in politics. During these days, Gautam Singh had become well acquainted with Sadhu Yadav and used to sit together. It has even been claimed in some reports that Gautam Singh and Sadhu Yadav were also business partners, both of whom also ran a restaurant together.

One day Gautam Singh took his very close female friend Shilpi Jain to a function, it is said that many big leaders were present in that function, and Sadhu Yadav was also present in that function. Gautam Singh introduced his friend Shilpi Jain to all the big people present there and even to Sadhu Yadav.

Now, from this function, the foundation of the Shilpi Gautam Murder Case started to be laid and neither Shilpi Jain nor Gautam Singh had any idea about it. Shilpi Jain was the daughter of Ujjwal Kumar Jain, owner of Kamala Store, a readymade garments businessman in Patna.

23-year-old Shilpi Jain was a very beautiful and attractive girl, she had also been Miss Patna, she had graduated from Patna Women's College, she was awarded Queen's Book in the farewell of the college and at the end of her college studies After that she was doing a computer course.

It is claimed that Shilpi Jain and Gautam Singh were girlfriend and boyfriend. On July 2, 1999, as usual, Shilpi Jain left home for her computer institute. She took a rickshaw to go to the institute around 2 o'clock. Shilpi had just reached midway when she met a friend of Gautam whom Shilpi also knew very well.

The boy insisted Shilpi and asked her to sit in his car and he would drop her to her computer institute in his car. Shilpi could not refuse his request and got out of the rickshaw and went to his friend's car. Now that friend of Gautam and Shilpi instead of taking his car towards Shilpi's computer institute route, turned it towards a place called Phulwari Sharif outside Patna city.

Let us tell you that Sadhu Yadav's house was in Phulwari Sharif itself, so now seeing the car going on another route, Shilpi told the boy I have to go to my computer institute and you are taking me somewhere else. Then the boy said that we are going to Phulwari Sharif where Gautam is also there.

Shilpi became normal after hearing Gautam's name, the boy took Shilpi to a guest house in Phulwari Sharif, that guest house was known at that time as a den of debauchery of some big people. Now it had been a long time since Shilpi left her house, it was afternoon and evening but Shilpi did not go to her house.

Suddenly, at around 9 o'clock on the night of 3rd July, there was a gathering of police in a garage of the MLA's residence located near Gandhi Maidan in Patna, the reason being two semi-naked people in a white Maruti Zen car. These lasses belonged to Gautam Singh and Shilpi Jain, it is said that the garage belonged to Sadhu Yadav.

Now who informed the police about those dead bodies, who told them that two bodies were lying in Sadhu Yadav's garage, this information never came out. Now when the police reached near that garage, the door of that garage was also locked from inside. That means, without going inside, any outsider would never know that two corpses were lying in that garage.

So the theory given was that whoever informed the police, already had information about all the incidents, and whoever had informed the police had given it as part of a plan. The door of the garage was broken and the police went inside, the dead bodies of Shilpi Jain and Gautam Singh were lying in the Marzen zen, and the police took photographs of both of them, which went to many big news channels at that time.

Seeing no justice, Shilpi's family members claimed after 6 days that Shilpi was murdered and not a suicide. Shilpi's family members demanded a CBI investigation from the government, politics also got heated regarding this matter. The opposition was busy cornering Rabri Devi's government regarding this matter because the name of her brother Sadhu Yadav was coming up in this matter.

According to Times of India reports, the Rabri Devi government handed over the Shilpi Gautam case to the CBI in September 1999 for a fair investigation. The extinguishing flame of justice got a boost, there was a hope that Shilpi Jain and Gautam Singh would get justice.

CBI started its investigation, CBI sent the semen samples found on Shilpi's body during the post-mortem to the lab for testing. It is said in many news reports that CBI had approached Sadhu Yadav to take his blood sample to match the DNA of semen found on Shilpi Jain's body, but Sadhu Yadav refused to give his blood sample to CBI. Had given.

Now I don't know why CBI did not raise any objection against this in the court, slowly time passed, the Shilpi-Gautam case cooled down and this case started getting blurred from the minds of people. Meanwhile, the CBI investigation continued without DNA matching of Sadhu Yadav. Nearly four years after the Shilpi Gautam case, in 2003, the CBI submitted its final report to the court and recommended the court close the case.

6. The RJD MLA Raj Ballabh, allegedly raped a minor girl at his residence in Nawada on February 6, 2016.

In March he surrendered to the police and a speedy trial was hosted in court at Nalanda and he was granted bail...!!!

The State Govt. (Nitish and Lalu alliance) did not utter even a single word.

Post his bail Raj Ballabh straightaway landed at the Patna residence of Lalu Prasad Yadav to seek his counsel.

7. Mafia-style marriage of Daughter Rohini

When Lalu Prasad married off the second daughter, Rohini, to the son of Rao Ranvijay Singh, a senior Mumbai-based income-tax official, Celebrations meant different things to different people.

The baraat band trumpeted as the "Royal Rath"- an ancient Bihar Military Police buggy-carrying Rao Samresh Singh, the bridegroom of Rohini Acharya and would-be son-in-law of Laloo Prasad Yadav, rolled into 1 Anne Marg in Patna last Friday.

Inside the sprawling 20-acre complex that houses the twin residences of state Chief Minister Rabri Devi and Rashtriya Janata Dal President Laloo Yadav, over 25,000 guests milled around as the harried father yelled instructions over a cordless microphone. It was revelry unleashed.

For businessmen and traders, it means downing their shutters. The Patna operations of a leading automobile manufacturer were closed and the staff, including some senior executives, was shifted to Kolkata.

Laloo's army of raiders even targeted small-time merchants and traders, who were too afraid to speak fearing retribution. Says A.C. Gupta, who owns a Maruti showroom on Boring Road: "We gave five cars voluntarily." But employees at the car showroom said 10 new air-conditioned vehicles, including Altos and Wagon Rs, were forcibly taken away.

Other automobile manufacturers had the same story to relate. In most cases, groups of people had turned up, forcibly occupied the vehicles and steered away.

The Patna Police, allegedly following Laloo's diktats, were either hand-in-glove with the car sevaks or simply chose to look the other way, hoping that the storm would die down once the cars were returned after the wedding.

According to one leading car dealer, the local police and three employees from the Regional Service Office accompanied the goons to a Telco stockyard and drove away with two Tata Safaris and three air-conditioned Sumos. Even the petrol for the vehicles was bought on "credit".

No efforts were made to seize the cars parked in front of the airport and the chief minister's residence. Instead, the police waited for the car-lifters to voluntarily return the vehicles to the showrooms.

The cars were duly returned after a hue and cry but for the dealers, it has meant a fresh set of problems. In many cases, customers who had booked the vehicles have refused to take delivery of the "used" cars. And many prospective buyers are staying away for the moment.

As many as 50 brand-new cars were lifted from showrooms at gunpoint to be used for ferrying guests.

One of Rabri Devi's brothers allegedly took away 100 new sofa sets from various furniture outlets to decorate six pandals.

The nondescript village to which the groom belongs was given electric and telephone lines and an asphalt road was laid out.

The state electricity board suffered transmission losses of Rs 25 lakh.

Over 300 police personnel, including commandos and STF, provided security cover for the tilak party. Flowers were flown in from Bangkok and other cities.

But the automobile showroom owners could still be considered lucky; they have at least got their cars back. Less fortunate are the owners of several furniture showrooms from where at least 100 sofa sets and plush chairs were carted away to decorate six huge pandals, including the main pandal which was a replica of Mumbai's Taj Hotel.

The city's florists, however, could afford to breathe easy: the flowers to decorate the pandals and the wedding stage were flown in from Bangkok, Kolkata.

8. The Siwan Horrors of Shahabuddin

Shahabuddin was born in Pratappur village of Siwan on May 10, 1967. He was educated in Bihar, having passed an MA in political science and acquiring a PhD. Married to Hina Shahab, he has three children - one son and two daughters. He had stepped into politics and crime during his college days.

Shahabuddin entered into politics under Lalu's shadow as a member of Janata Dal's youth wing. He took advantage of his influence through muscle power. He contested on the Janata Dal ticket in the 1990 Bihar Assembly elections and won. He also won in 1995. His political stature grew further when he won the 1996 Lok Sabha elections for the first time. He acquired more power with the RJD coming to power in the State in 1997.

All of us know that right from killing two brothers by dousing them with acid to attacking police with AK 47s, Shahabuddin had become a reign of terror and law unto himself in Siwan.

It was Lalu's political and legal patronage that helped him become a sort of legend of Bihar's hinterland crime universe.

(http://google.com/amp/s/www.hind…)

9. The messiah of the poor who starved poor

Lalu Prasad stopped giving funds to the state government-owned undertakings. There were over 35,000 employees in its department who had not been getting salaries. The period of nonpayment ranged from three months to nine years.

One can imagine the plight and misery of the employees and their families. Lalu Prasad Yadav’s indifferent nature ruined many families, and they had to live in extreme poverty with no money in hand and no food in their stomachs. Children stopped going to school as their parents could not afford school fees. Even some could not tolerate the constant pressure and committed suicide.

Twenty-two-year-old Chandan Bhattacharya immolated himself near Patna High Court on 15 August 2002 leading a life of great penury.

He was the son of Paritosh Bhattacharya an employee of the Bihar state agro-industries Development Corporation who was not getting the salary for the past nine years and was unable to pay Chandan’s tuition fees. Chandan died during his treatment, and after his death, the shameless government only provided five thousand to his father for the cremation. A senior officer of the state secretariat said: “We don’t want to blackmail by a handful of wayward young men”.

Chandan was not the lone voice of despair. Many attempted self-immolation which sparked off the political row of Bihar. Many employees and their family members died because of illness as they had no money for the treatment. These employees did not ask much, but they wanted their salaries on time.

The Bihar government under Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi regime completely failed to provide the necessities to people and created an environment of despair with its dismal performance.

The breakdown of law and order made the life of a businessman pathetic. Gangs used to kidnap doctors, engineers, and businesspeople in broad daylight and they were released only after paying huge ransoms.

Kidnapping was the only industry that flourished during that period. Because of its jungle raj, Bihar was left behind in comparison to other states. However, development happened during the husband and wife regime, but it was only for their family.

10. The glorified saga of the Jungle Raj -

(1) 1990–1995 period: In this time period, Laloo was considered to be an oddball of a politician. He was outspoken, cracked jokes and made fun of Civil services officers. But at this time there was nothing to suggest that he was corrupt, so all of the above were in a way acceptable. This was a period when leaders from lower castes, like Lalu were coming up in North India(also like Mulayam and Mayawati). It was a welcome thing, and I would say he was not that bad back then, and he was probably an average politician like most others in mostly Congress led India. Bihar was not yet a crime infested land, though caste based hatred was increasing, and caste massacres had slowly started. There was a major fight between two castes, Yadavs and Bhumihars, and all other castes sided with one of these castes. Bhumihars had been a traditionally powerful caste, known for their muscle power as well as shrewdness. Yadavs had newly acquired power in 1990 and they were most numerically strong of all of the castes in Bihar. They were more than willing to demonstrate their power. In response to killings of Bhumihars by Yadav dominated MCC, Ranvir Sena was formed which was Bhumihar and Rajput dominated. Both MCC and Ranvir Sena have blood of thousands of innocents on their hands, none of them is a hero here. Laloo did not try to contain these groups, as caste wars worked in his favour in form of lower castes' vote consolidation. He tried some attempts at development, like beautification of Patna in 1994–95 after his visit to Singapore. But apart from breaking boundary walls, nothing much happened nonetheless. Nitish, who was an idealist broke off from Laloo led Janta Dal and formed his own party.

1995–2000 period: This is a period when Laloo unravelled. He was blamed and arrested for fodder scam,and his image of a Yadav simpleton went for a toss. The caste wars started in their full form and hundreds of Bhumihars or lower caste people were killed almost every year by MCC or Ranvir Sena. The development of Bihar stopped completely, and Patna, which was to be beautified in 1994–95, looked a lot worse with dusty and pothole ridden roads. There were frequent power cuts and at least 6 hours of power cut everyday was a normal even in the state capital Patna. Crime started actually in this period, with most criminals belonging to the Yadav caste group who were thought to be mostly immune to any police action. Criminals were given encouragement by Laloo and his party, as they ensured his victory due to the gunda power they had. So,the joker actually became a villain in this period. Opposition started uniting, many leaders left Rashtriya Janta Dal, and formed their own parties. People who blame Biharis for voting Laloo forget that Laloo suffered his first major defeat in September 1999 Lok Sabha elections when NDA won the maximum seats in Bihar. Bihar became infamous in this time period, and Biharis were ridiculed in all other states.

2000–2005: Laloo did not win an absolute majority in 2000, and his party retained power thanks to the support of grand old lootery party Congress, which before 2000 elections was opposing him tooth and nail. So if it was not for Congress support,Laloo would have been out of power in 2000 itself. This period was a continuation of the 1995–2000 period, only with more ferocity. There was more crime, Bihar became infamous for kidnappings in this period. Caste wars abated. Laloo made peace with Bhumihars, and said that ' Yadav aur Bhumihars mein beti aur roti ka rishta hota hai' . Opposition by now had mostly united under the NDA umbrella. Bihar by now had become synonymous with everything bad with democracy in any part of the world.

But like any bad dream, the Laloo rule came to an end in 2005. I am hopeful of Bihar's complete recovery and resurgence under present NDA regime.

So if anyone still christens Lalu Prasad Yadav as "Messiah of the Poors", he or she shall hang his or her own head in shame.

It is matter of utter shame for us that criminal dynasties like this thrive in our democraand a certain section of paid media jokes glorify these criminals as some sort of icon of the doors and downtrodden.