SOURCE: Reddit - r/Chandigarh
STATE: Chandigarh
TITLE: Failure To Deliver Product, Process Refund Promptly, Chandigarh District Commission Holds Nykaa Liable
AUTHOR: Voxyacomplaintforum
DATE: 2024-07-10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chandigarh/comments/1dztz27/failure_to_deliver_product_process_refund/
--- POST TEXT ---

Very newly a judgement was given by the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission in Chandigarh who passed verdict against Nykaa for providing deficiency in service due to failure to deliver the requested item and providing a refund only a month after the order was placed. In this case, the complainant purchased items of Rs. 2823.24 from Nykaa application and made payment online. After getting delay in delivery the complainant contacted Nykaa help centre and enquired about the status of the order. Nykaa responded that it forwarded the Complainant's request for urgent delivery and advised her to check the status on the mobile application but the Complainant find that the status of her order was not updated and the product was not delivered to him.

Although Nykaa refunded the amount but the complainant get frustrated due to delay response causing him mental distress which is a deficiency in service by Nykaa. Feeling aggrieved, the complainant filed a consumer complaint in the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission in Chandigarh against Nykaa.

In response, Nykaa argued that he refund full amount Rs. 2824.21 to the complainant's account. They also asserted that since the refund was processed, there was no cause of action against them. It also claimed it acted as an intermediary and should not be held liable for any service deficiencies.

It was almost a month, Nykaa neither delivered products nor they  refunded the amount paid, it was only after receipt of a legal notice from the complainant that Nykaa refunded the amount.

The District Commission held that Nykaa failed to update the status of the Complainant's order or deliver the products and kept her waiting for about a month. The bench held that Nykaa unjustifiably withheld the Complainant's money. The refund was processed only after the Complainant was forced to engage an advocate to send a legal notice. Therefore, the District Commission held Nykaa liable for deficiency in services.

At the end the District Commission directed Nykaa to pay the Complainant Rs. 4000 as composite compensation for the mental agony, harassment, and litigation expenses she incurred.

Published by **Voxya** as an initiative to help consumers in resolving consumer complaints.