SOURCE: Reddit - r/Maharashtra
STATE: Maharashtra
TITLE: Credit Card Fraud which you can be victim of please beware 
AUTHOR: dog-shit-69
DATE: 2024-04-30
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Maharashtra/comments/1cgozju/credit_card_fraud_which_you_can_be_victim_of/
--- POST TEXT ---

Fraud Alert - 29 Apr 2024 
Guys this morning I got a call from a number saying they were speaking from HDFC bank and a transaction of 43,000 had been made on a credit card ending with the number 3345 in Jay Nagar Bangalore - if I have not done this, they asked me if they can transfer the call to customer care - which I opted for talking to agent since I do not have any such cards.

The spoke person very smartly convinced me that it was a personal data leakage scam and they come across such cases daily basis. They went to the extent where the spoke-person gave me details like - His name, Employee ID in HDFC bank, and Branch location to convince me about the seriousness of the issue. Then when I asked them to call me later he said - It would just take 5 - 10 minutes of my time to launch an FIR with Cyber Security and get this issue resolved and I won't need to pay the outstanding amount against the card. 

To further convince me how I can be safe - they gave me the primary phone number associated with the card (which was on DNDaccording to the information provided by them) and since my identity was used for card processing - the phone was redirected to my number. I sensed something fishy from beginning but earnestness of the customer care made take the decision of transferring the call to Cyber Security Department Mumbai.

I further spoke with so-called Cyber Crime department - which was highly unprofessional and asked me for general details of my usage of Aadhar information for hotel bookings etc etc. Later when I still was in doubt the spokesperson told me to go to a silent room and be ready with my Adhar card, PAN card for recording some statement without involvement of any third party. By this time I was already pissed with these guys' procedures.

I cut the call and asked information about this to my brother and other friends and meanwhile I received a call from +2226504008 where same person from so called Cyber Crime Department was speaking - asked me - why did I cut the call and to fast forwards this process.
I again cut the call and same thing happened. When checked online - Mumbai Police has number - 02226504008

*In my experience our police system has not reached to a stage where they would call you back for your query resolution. Also they won't ask you many unnecessary personal information and to be alone to share that with them. Beware of such frauds and no matter how much they convince you - do not provide any personal information.*