SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kerala
STATE: Kerala
TITLE: Fell for an auto scam - paid him 500 rupees 😭
AUTHOR: Then-Library-7329
DATE: 2023-10-19
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kerala/comments/17bhqv8/fell_for_an_auto_scam_paid_him_500_rupees/
--- POST TEXT ---

I'm an idiot. Or just really naive lmao. This is in kochi btw. I got into an auto in the morning to go to work. I'm malayali but I'm new to kochi so it was difficult describing exactly where to go since I wasn't too sure on nearby landmarks/fastest way to get there.

The auto driver was like its okay, I'll take you the way I know. Had a meter running so I got in. Then a few hundred metres away, he gets a call. Stops the auto to take it, and then starts crying. Restarts it, and then apologizes to me for crying. I said its okay. He then proceeds to tell me that his mother is in the hospital and he can't pay for a 2300 rupee scan. I asked him to tell the doctor if they can reduce the cost. He then tells me this was the reduced cost from 4k. Started talking to him about aayushman Bharat scheme because I'm a doctor, and telling him that he'll get a big concession. But it usually has to be applied during admission. Says he hasn't applied yet. 
Then the tells me he has two girl children who are studying and that money is really tight.

I feel extremely uncomfortable and bad for him. Seeing an old man cry while telling you that his auto is rented, his house is on rent and he has to keep driving while his mother is in hospital made me extremely sad. He dropped me off at the hospital, and the ride that usually costs 220, I gave him a 500 and told him to keep it. 

Came back home and my mom told me this is a pretty regular auto scam that drivers use to get money for drinks. Feel extremely foolish now. Idk, I'm lucky enough to grow up privileged and felt very bad for him. I figured I'd just take the bus for the next few days to even out the 500 rupees. But now I feel annoyed that someone might have taken advantage of my kindness, to go get drunk of all things.