SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kerala
STATE: Kerala
TITLE: PVC CURTAIN SCAMMERS
AUTHOR: introvert_squirrel
DATE: 2024-01-22
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kerala/comments/19cwutb/pvc_curtain_scammers/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hello everyone, we have a single storey house with a sheet on top floor. Therefore, my father always wanted to cover all four sides and make it a room by putting glass. So yesterday someone came to our house and told us that he have pvc curtain for 250 rupees per sheet. After measuring, he said we need 10 sheets so it is 250×10 = 2500 rupees. Father agreed to it, thinking that it is more profitable than glass. My father immediately told me this. I have seen a video about bamboo curtain scam on YouTube a year ago. I told my father that it is a scam. My father quickly went to tell them we don't want it. But they already put 4 sheet curtains within 5 or 7 minutes. My Father told them this is enough &amp; give the bill . They got into a bit of a fight since they couldn't put 10 sheets and then at last wrote a bill and said 25000 rupees for 4 curtains. We were shocked and asked how it was, I was told that it was 250 rupees per square feet. Dad said they told it is 250 per sheet. So they said it is feet and not sheet, your dad heard it wrong. Actually, they did not say the word square of the word square feet on purpose. Just said sheet. The sheet was changed to feet when it was time to write the final bill. Then there was a big fight between us and them. They started to threaten us. When I asked them to take the curtain and leave they said no. We asked them to get out of our house and they didn't. I called the police. When the police came, they stopped threatening us. They did not expect the police to come. Police asked them to ask a decent wage and they said 15000 rupees is enough. But we said we can't pay 15000. Then the police asked all of us to come to the station and make a decision there. Police asked them to get out of the house. Before going to the station, they came again and said very humbly that it is enough to give 15000 rupees in installments. Father said let's go to station and decide that. We waited for them at the police station yesterday for 2 hours. But they didn't come. Police told us to go home. Today our neighbours said that, while we were not at home some people came looking for us. They didn't take back their curtain yesterday. I don't know if they are coming to threaten us again or take the curtain. When my father and I go out, my mother stays home alone. We are afraid of them now.