SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: Is it scam which is happening on these apps?
AUTHOR: Dizzygodmode
DATE: 2024-05-18
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1cuqpi1/is_it_scam_which_is_happening_on_these_apps/
--- POST TEXT ---

Yesterday I got a match on Aisle with a girl who had 3 of her pics uploaded which seemed real,but the profile was not verified. I messaged her first,she replied and told she is a student in a college in Gr.Noida(she told the name to me). She also told that she is living with her family, not in a hostel or PG.
She asked my why are you on the app I replied something,she told she she is just for fun,hookups party and Masti. I was fine till here ,but she asked to meet. I started becoming suspicious,she agreed to meet the next day, that is today, I said Ok let's meet just to keep up the convo. She asked me the time,I asked her to provide her number so that we can discuss things in detail,she insisted on time, I told her k lets keep it for the evening, again I insisted on the calling number ,she gave this time .I searched on the Truecaller app, the name was different that too from Gujrat the name was something like 'Khalifa', her excuse was that she took a new number. My suspicions were increasing, I asked to call, she said ok give me 2 mins. I gave her a normal call on the number , to my surprise the number was not working for normal call, made WhatsApp call she picked and it was a girl talking, she agreed for sector 18 and said that she can stay whole night (again dubious, as she is living with her family). Call was finished within 2 mins she had nothing more to talk and I was also not interested to talk. She pinged on WhatsApp that she was here for hookup and fun,so sector 18 is ok but let's first go to a hotel and then to any club after 10. I have just agreed to see what comes next but I am 90% sure this is a scam. Has anyone faced such kind of scam/fraud in Delhi or Noida? I am definitely not going to trust her or anyone is such case. Please let me know your thoughts in comments.