SOURCE: Reddit - r/Gujarat
STATE: Gujarat
TITLE: New Scam ? Cash on delivery 
AUTHOR: vatsy08
DATE: 2024-08-27
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/gujarat/comments/1f2fcws/new_scam_cash_on_delivery/
--- POST TEXT ---

New Scam ? Cash on delivery 

Apologies if a lot of you are aware of this and I am repeating myself. 

Phase 1. Mother is not at home. Eye sight challenged father is the only one at home. A Delivery guy shows up home. Asks for Rs 500, COD (cash on delivery) for a parcel from the internet. (We do order stuff semi regularly but 99% of the time, parents are aware and it’s paid off prepaid by me) Dad calls me to confirm about this delivery, but I deny ordering anything, So I ask him to refuse delivery. I thought the matter is over and I go about with my day. 

Phase 2. The shipping agent asks for cancellation OTP. Since Dad is physically disabled (eye sight) he denies giving out an OTP. Shipping agent calls up some number and asks for OTP. Turns out the number is of my cousin, since the shipping agent has put the call on speaker. My dad asks to talk to my cousin. Supposedly she is the person ordered this package and the shipping agent asks her for an OTP. She denies ordering anything while talking to my father on phone and the agent walks away. 

Phase 3. Few hours later, a delivery guy shows up to the said cousin’s home in another city with a COD order. Since we already had communicated with my cousin regarding this, they refuse to take any parcel. 

Extra information. When my dad asked him “what was in the package”, he refused to open it, first mentioned some medicine and said it’s in a small box. We had a couple neighbours around so he wasn’t all alone. When the delivery driver showed up to my cousin’s place and her husband asked him to leave, the shipping agent had a sarcastic laugher. 

I am unsure if this shipping agents are in on the scam at a deeper level. The distance between these two cities is east 200 kms and they are in neighbouring states. Please use this is a reminder to share with technically challenged people around you to note share OTPs with anyone.