SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kerala
STATE: Kerala
TITLE: Kerala Police - A Nightmare
AUTHOR: bheemanreghu
DATE: 2023-04-22
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kerala/comments/12ur9n3/kerala_police_a_nightmare/
--- POST TEXT ---

Kerala is going through bad experiences where the police, who are supposed to protect the people, are becoming a nightmare for them. A group of officials who do not understand that the police are people's servants are the cornerstone of atrocities. Instead of uprooting them, superiors, organizational leaders and politicians are protecting them by giving them water and manure. The atrocities of the CI at Dharmadam station recall that such incidents cannot be washed away by the regimes portraying them as isolated. A C.I. in a drunken state brutally treated by an elderly mother who came to the station. Those responsible should think about what message they are sending to the society. It will be a strong warning to the criminal officers who are ready to get rid of such people without a moment's delay.

#Approach of higer officials 
When there is a problem, the government issues certain criteria for officials. A detailed examination is needed as to why police officers themselves subvert government directives in the force, where they do something initially to show compliance but then deliberately forget it. Those who say many times a day that the police force will change with time should realize that the current situation is worse than the past. Recent strict measures, including dismissal of the culprits from the force, have proved to be tantamount to eye-rolling, follow-up shows. Although C.I.Sunimon, accused in many criminal cases was dismissed from service, the Home Department had prepared a list of officials involved in similar crimes. However, they are still wearing official hats. This approach to criminal officials is tantamount to giving the officials a license to do whatever they want.

Chief Ministers often call a meeting of top officials when the police force is embroiled in controversies. Some important suggestions will also be given ahead. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who is in charge of the Home Department, also called a meeting and issued some directives when there were widespread complaints against the police force. Had it been implemented, there would not have been any CI show-off at Dharmadam station. A case has been registered against this officer on trivial charges. This policy of being protected against committing any crime in the force needs to change. The government should also think that they have to take the reins.

#CM's directives in vain
The Chief Minister's main directive was to give special treatment to women, children and the elderly coming to the station. A separate register should be kept for their complaints. A receipt must be given on receiption of complaint. Receipt also applies to online complaints. Copy of FIR and progress of investigation should be forwarded to complainants.
Do not delay in registering the FIR after receiving the complaint. Do not attempt to protect or assist perpetrators in harassment complaints. The practice of buying paper and pen from complainants should also be stopped. Strong measures should be taken to prevent violence due to disappointment in love. There should be no complaints of lock-up harassment. Pending cases should be disposed of within three months.

A special unit will soon be established to investigate financial offences. A Cyber Investigation Division will also be formed to provide technical assistance in the investigation of cyber crimes. Who is responsible for these things announced a year ago? Allegations have been raised for many years that the top officials are not involved much in the administration of the station. It is true that some experiments in the police force have also eroded the efficiency and discipline of the force.

#Kerala Police lost its charm
It goes without saying that Kerala Police, which used to be the best police force in the country, is now in the pit of shame. Allegations against the police tarnish the reputation of the force and the home department. Nowhere was there a serious discussion about how to wash away the shame that comes from mango theft to lock up brutalities. The government should take a strict stand that it will not tolerate policemen who do not treat people with respect and use bad language and abuse in the force. It should be implemented quickly. Police character reform is essential. A curriculum has to be prepared for that. Some corrupt officials in law and order are behind many incidents. Instead of those with poor service records, educated officers in the camps should be brought in charge of law and order.

They should also be given special training. If possible, common people do not want to go to the police station. They will arrive at the station in some way or another because of the situations. If you deal with them respectfully, the reputation of the police will rise. Gone are the days of the police establishing power through threats and force. Based on the High Court order, the DGP has also issued a circular that no 'eda' and ' edi' calls should be made.

The police should strive to be the friend and servant of the people. Jana Maitri Policing was the plan for that. That successful project has now been locked down. These are the times when even the smallest mistake spreads with great speed in the new technology boom. The new generation will keep asking questions. There is no point in expressing intolerance or unhappiness with it. Those who deviate from the responsibility of serving the people and move towards criminality. If such people can be avoided in the beginning, it will not become a widespread phenomenon. Police should change with time. A system where the police and the people work together should come. We have many such examples before us. Those who are stubborn about it should never be in the police force.