SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: I have spent Rs7000+ on various Astrology apps and Youtube Astrologers even Chatgpt to get Career guidance, Here's what happened next
AUTHOR: Traditional-Union904
DATE: 2025-02-14
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1ipg4eh/i_have_spent_rs7000_on_various_astrology_apps_and/
--- POST TEXT ---

I was scrolling quora and I saw an ad which narrated the story of astrotalk founder, seeing that first chat was free I downloaded the app and consulted the astrologer, I asked them what should I do then they would ask me what I wanted to do, whatever was my response they just said that, but after 5 minutes I wanted to ask more so I downloaded the app on another phone and had a consultation, speciality with astrology consultation is that it's addictive and I found out that all astrology apps offered first 5 mins consultation free, I downloaded all the astrology apps and even paid in some apps to consult for longer. However, I got bored with generic advice this apps gave then I started to watch astrology podcasts and consulted a astrologer by paying Rs 2100, However advice he gave was although specific but I felt a lot of it was wrong because he advised just based on lagna chart and just on the basis of house in planets without taking into account various advanced charts like D9, D10 etc. and degree of planets, So I didn't pay much attention to his words. Then for a few months I didn't consult anyone after few months due to some career issues I decided to consult another astrologer I found on YT his fees was Rs 4500 which was quite high for me but seeing his YT videos I decided to give it a shot, The advice he gave was quite specific and was based on D-9 and D-10 charts the commentary given by him regarding some of the things was also correct to large extent. 

Some time back I tried Chatgpt for astrology by giving it time, dob, place of birth and D-9 &amp; D-10 chart, It's about 50-60 percent accurate although not very accurate but it can get specific as how much you will earn or timings of event. AI astrology can be next big thing.

After consulting around 50+ free + paid astrologers I think consulting astrologers is not as bad as some people present but consulting the right astrologer is very important and also not every of their words should be taken seriously, Its just that if you are going through a bad time you need someone to tell you that it would get better. Also I have seen a pattern that many who use astrology apps regularly are suffering from some kind of mental illness and instead of going to doctor they go to astrologers to ask when things will get better.

Business insight - Astrotalk can launch a feature that brings allows users to book long 30 min/ 1 hour sessions with astrologers and podcasts with those astrologers asking them their method, systems etc should be uploaded on the profile so that a user can know their astrologer in depth before consulting, because if you dont know the astrologer it becomes very difficult to trust his predictions.

P.S. - Please don't fall for Tarot scam and Scam by popular Yt astrologers