SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: Start-up founders not giving my internship stipend even after a year. How do I get my money back?
AUTHOR: gulsii
DATE: 2023-11-10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/17s725c/startup_founders_not_giving_my_internship_stipend/
--- POST TEXT ---

It is a pitch deck creation company in New Delhi. The made me work for five months though the tenure was just three months on the offer letter. It hardly bothered me because the projects that were ongoing and elongated for too long due to the clients had to be completed so I stayed in. I could have dropped after my tenure. I worked. However, they did not recognise my work and offered me an acknowledgement certificate of only three months. And they made me work a lot. Offered to pay as low as 1000 rupees for the entire pitch deck I would create apart from the designing. And would fetch 40000 or more for the same from the clients. Made me travel to the office twice a week which also costed me 200/- every time. And I could do only 3-4 projects in a month. It was a lot of pressure as the client would demand changes a lot of time. Its been a year. I have not been paid my stipend. I have done relentless calls and texts and they have not replied to a single. Completely ignored. It has been a year and I had been patient all these months for my stipend expecting they would pay as soon as the client gets done with the latter designing and the project is settled. Now having never got replied since so many months, I am pissed off. 

And the experience here has been truly Terrible. these guys would literally yell at me as if I was a full time employee available at their expense 24/7. I was just a part time employee. Once I had an exam and couldn't pick up the call. I was in college and did not carry my laptop with me. The founder literally called and said do the changes right now. I said I am not your servant. I have my own other commitments. It will take time to go back home. I don't have the laptop. She lit said. We don't care you have to carry your laptop everywhere. When I ask, you have to do it. Apart from it, they had terrible employees (they too being college students) The ones who would lead the interns. They would themselves fuck around and then play an entire blame game for delays or anything that would happen. Apart from it, a very toxic employee culture who would sit around and mock everyone and drink a lot and have cigarettes and talk dirty in office. 

If ever there was a delay in responding to them, they would threaten reaching out to college authorities complaining and getting that kid penalised by the college authorities. They have done this with others previously costing them their career. 

First their set-up is like until a project is completed and paid by the client, they would hand over stipend the intern who has literally spent hours taking working on it, taking meetings, making changes so many times, etc. So, the entire risk is transferred to the one who you are already paying bare minimum. As an organisation, how can you do this the interns. They make a lot of money on this fraud business model and couldn't even bear these risks? Fraud business because they claim their clients of making professional pitch decks and take so much money from them and what do they do? Hand over projects to amateur college students who would do as they please without any knowledge of what works and what not. The clients themselves might know better. 

I have talked to a lot of my fellow interns and they have done similar to all of them. 

The main issue: 
Its been a year. I have not been paid my stipend. I have done relentless calls and texts and they have not replied to a single. Completely ignored. It has been a year and I had been patient all these months for my stipend expecting they would pay as soon as the client gets done with the latter designing and the project is settled. Now having never got replied since so many months, I am pissed off. 

How do I find a solution to this?