SOURCE: Reddit - r/TamilNadu
STATE: Tamil Nadu
TITLE: Annamalai, Sasikanth Senthil IAS and the power of BJP IT wing
AUTHOR: bigmanfromthepalace
DATE: 2024-06-06
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/TamilNadu/comments/1d9gxjc/annamalai_sasikanth_senthil_ias_and_the_power_of/
--- POST TEXT ---

How many of you have heard about Sasikanth Senthil, a young former IAS officer who contested in the recent general elections from Tiruvallur and with a record Margin of 5,72,155 votes? Senthil is born to a Dalit family from Kancheepuram. He served in different parts of Karnataka as a district collector for a decade. He was known for his honesty and took severe actions to ease religious tensions and as a result communal violence between Hindus and Muslims dropped dramatically in the districts where he worked. He had problems with the ruling BJP in the state in 2019 and resigned stating “I have taken this decision as I feel it is unethical for me to continue as a civil servant in the government when the fundamental building blocks of our diverse democracy are being compromised in an unprecedented manner,” in his resignation letter. Some say he was under the political pressure from the BJP to resign. Senthil was also said to be the master-mind in the recent Congress victory as the state government in 2023.

If you watch his interviews and his speeches, you can see that Senthil is a well-mannered intelligent man whose speeches are full of information and logic which most of our present-day politicians lack. Or to simply put it, he behaves and speaks like someone who was an IAS officer. 

https://preview.redd.it/qdozqzlqnx4d1.png?width=540&amp;format=png&amp;auto=webp&amp;s=fd2dbc1afdc343854a0b40c04137ccba553ec6d2

Now both Sasikanth Senthil and Annamalai joined the Congress and the BJP respectively around the same time in 2020.

Every since Annamalai joined the BJP, Hundreds of pages in Social media flooded in with names as "Dheeran Annamalai", "Singham Annamalai", etc. These intensified the moment he was made the TN BJP president like it was already pre-planned by BJP to break into Tamil Nadu where it lacked power. Many YouTube channels were bought by BJP notably the former pro-NTK "Pesu Tamizha Pesu" channel. Notable media were the TNNews24air owned pages in Facebook and YouTube which spams content about Annamalai everyday like crazy. There are tons of Facebook and youtube channels which posts his same speeches into multiple channels everyday. These social media accounts were all of a sudden comparing him to Ghandhi, Kamarajar, etc.., and were calling him as the next prime minster and CM of Tamil Nadu even before winning any elections. He was portrayed as some kind of beacon of honesty and righteousness which was lacking only in TN but present in every other BJP ruled state according to their IT wing. Former BJP member and Jounalist Madan Ravichandran who wrote speeches for Annamalai claimed Annamalai's resignation from KA was something to do with the mysterious death of a IPS officer Madhukar Shetty who was forefront against mining scams. Annamalai has inheritance of 76-acre farmland in his hometown where he employs people to work (said by himself in his affidavit and video interviews) but now he openly lies to create an image that he is a poor farmer who lives in with a bunch of goats alone in his farm.

Godi media (a term for national media which were controlled by BJP through money or threats from investigation agencies) were reporting all moves and speeches of this man on a daily basis for the past four years. He takes a shit, and they report it to keep this man in the limelight 24x7. 

Accounts who do not even have a history of tweets about anything in Tamil Nadu create trends hashtags to support Annamalai or to attack anti-BJP political leaders in Tamil Nadu and sometimes in Hindi which most Tamils can't read. Even now, their IT wings are working as usual in Twitter, I saw [this tweet](https://x.com/iamAkhilesh09/status/1798678478281400452) when writing this rant.

It's obvious that the central BJP was funneling unimaginable amounts of money into their IT wings to improve the image of this man in a hope to "conquer" Tamil Nadu, a stronghold which refused to give itself to be ruled by Hindi-speakers.

Days are gone where politics was a minor part of social media as now political parties who has a ton load of money can easily use that as a battleground to inorganically influence voters.