SOURCE: Reddit - r/Punjab
STATE: Punjab
TITLE: Immigration to Canada - The greatest scam of this century
AUTHOR: NaiveBlueberry6322
DATE: 2024-07-31
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/punjab/comments/1egnqt5/immigration_to_canada_the_greatest_scam_of_this/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hello people of [](https://www.reddit.com/r/Punjab/). I'm sure many of you are aware of the growing distaste for Punjabi's in Canada. I personally disapprove of the way Canadians are speaking about/treating your people in this country. You are being used as a scapegoat to what is a rapidly declining quality of life caused by an economic recession caused by an incompetent federal government.

Under Trudeau, our GDP growth has stagnated, investment in Canada is fleeing in droves to the USA as the outlook of this country is bleak. Excessive regulation, climate policies taxing industry, no real tech sector the list goes on. What you need to understand before moving here is that you are a tool of this incompetent government. The money you spend on tuition, housing, gasoline groceries everything serves to mask our failing economy. Bringing in millions of people makes it look like the country is creating all of this new wealth and spreading it around, resulting in a growth of our GDP. Ideally, you would move here, study at a great Canadian school and gain a new skill, apply that skill in the labor market &amp; contribute to the economy as both a producer of goods &amp; consumer. THIS IS NOT WHAT IS HAPPENING. The majority of schools that are accepting you are not a school, they are a business. The education you will receive will give you nothing. You will not be set up for the future, you will only be crushed by the debt needed to pay for this garbage education. So then you'll graduate, depending on what you took in school, you'll likely not get a job in that field, but you'll still need to work to survive. So, without any marketable skills you'll likely need to rely on a low paying, low requirement job. Well guess what, all of your colleagues are in the same position fighting for these jobs. You will spend all of your time applying, dropping of resumes, looking for work instead of working. You'll need to take out more debt just to survive in a country who's cost of living is continually increasing. You might take on more debt to purchase a bogus LMIA. If you do manage to get a job, the pay you'll receive won't even be enough to cover the cost of living. You CANNOT WIN IN THIS SCENARIO.

Take into account all I've said above, and now we add on the growing distaste for immigrants in Canada. Canadians who are not fully informed on what is happening will simply see costs increasing, and see a new person in the country and want someone to blame. It will be you. So, you are the victim of the scam that is new age Canadian immigration, and you're also the cause of all of Canada's problems in the eyes of the people who live here. None of this sounds like a good experience.

I truly admire your desire to work, to improve your living conditions, to try to work for a good future for your life. People see lines of 100+ immigrants lining up for a single minimum wage job and shudder, I think it speaks to your desire to contribute &amp; live the dream you were sold. I'm here to tell you that the dream they are selling you in Canada is false. Maybe 1% of people will achieve what used to be the average life of a middle class person in this country. If you come here with a good education in healthcare, a skilled trade, STEM, IT you can succeed. But if you come here and do a 1-2 year diploma in some kind of business field, you will be stuck at the bottom of our capitalist food chain for the rest of your life, laden by debt you'll never pay off. Understand the realities of this place and make an informed decision before deciding to come here. Do not fall victim to this scam.