SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: Need help - Missing Person
AUTHOR: SofaAloo
DATE: 2022-06-08
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/v7payz/need_help_missing_person/
--- POST TEXT ---

Update : Sort of good(?)

She's okay. We still didn't talk to her. The person who was sharing the contact list and images, also sent the number of her landlord in Delhi and roommates too. We were able to contact the roommate who said she has already filed police complaint about the circulation and blackmail. She also conveyed that the friend will contact us if she needs help.

Hi everyone,

A friend of mine has not been reachable by us, friends, family, anyone for the past 5 months.

She has been reading insta messages and stuff like that but not responding. Given things that happened with her, we thought she might just need sometime.

A few weeks ago, we recieved a message with her details including PAN and Aadhar that she has defaulted on one of the pay day loans app. When that happened, she posted status and stories saying not to worry and she had settled the loan already/didn't take it in the first place.

Taking that as a cue of nothing to be concerned, we ignored and moved on.

Today, some of her close relatives have recieved a broadcast message on WhatsApp with morfed nudes and a list of contacts whom these nudes will be shared.

It seems she's being blackmailed too.

We want to file a missing person's report in Delhi as that's the last we know of where she was. Secondly, we want to take this bastard head-on who's resorted to this technique.

Any tips please?

Edit: Just saw a page on Delhi Police's website for online missing person complain. I'll be filling that.

The cyber crime suggestion, I am waiting on her relative to send over the number and screenshots where they recieved the morphed nudes and list of contacts from.

Update : Sort of good(?)

She's okay. We still didn't talk to her. The person who was sharing the contact list and images, also sent the number of her landlord in Delhi and roommates too. We were able to contact the roommate who said she has already filed police complaint about the circulation and blackmail. She also conveyed that the friend will contact us if she needs help.