SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: How To Save Yourself From - Girl - Hookah - Cafe
AUTHOR: mainibuhatela
DATE: 2023-11-03
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/17mr6hf/how_to_save_yourself_from_girl_hookah_cafe/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hello Laundo/ Ladkio 

Every day we have 2 cases that we see of guys getting scam\*ed due to this Girl - Hookah - Cafe or Girl - Drinks - Cafe thing. Being someone who have faced fare share of these things in life take this post as Guide how to save yourself. 

Scam - The Scam is very simple. You match with a girls who is way out of your league or now as we are saying even average looking also. They create a situation in which they make you stop thinking you from the brain in head to the one in between your legs. They want to meet fast without wasting time. You suggest some place, they ignore that and create some excuse and ask you to meet at a place where they want. You go there, the place will be Shady AF she orders stuffs which are overprice you are forced to pay and then once done you and your chota chetan just kept standing there. ( Pehle khushi main hilate ab rote rote paise gawane ke baad hilaogey ) 

How To Save Yourself - These are the below steps that you should do to save yourself. 

Stage 1 - This is the stage where you did match with her for the first time. If the girls looks way out of your league. Go to a mirror and look at your face and ask yourself Will she be talking to me in real life. If the answer is no that's your first sign and be aware. If answer is yes good. 
In this stage you have to make sure you ask the correct question. First of all if instead of having any valid conversation she says she don't use the app or is in class or anything and try to create a situation to meet fast. Be Aware. Next if she talks with you in a way like you feel how wonderful is she again Be Aware. Understand the basic human psychology no women will be will to be flirtatious with you in the first time she is chatting even if she is on dating apps. World however fast is not going to act against the basic psychology. If she starts complementing you on the most useless things again be aware. 

Stage 2 - If you are somehow trapped in this the next step is to meet. Whatever happens never ever meet someone from these apps where they want you to. Always find a middle place and if not do not meet. If what she says that she is so much interested in you she will come to meet. Keep this is mind. 

Stage 3 - If you are so dumb that you have even reached that place. Always look at the things and body language that she is doing. If she seems way to comfortable with the place get aware. If she seems to know where to sit, what to order and knows everything walk away. Make a fake call try to get out of that place. Say you can't eat or that you have some issues. Do whatever ( Jisko Marna hai maro apni family main par bhaago waha se). Bhai yaha se niklo chache jo karna pade. Bolo bhaut mehnga hai nahi khaa sakta paise nahi hai . Dene wali wo waise bhi nhi hai kam se kam paise to bachao) 

Questions You should Ask On Apps:- Here are set of questions that you should ask these girls in the apps to know if you are getting scammed or not. 
1. What are your hobbies - Whatever she says ( Be it reading books, Watching Movies anything - Be smart google some event or something around your place regarding that and ask her to meet there ). If she says no and focus on meeting in Cafes, this is the start of Red Flag. Eg If you like watching movies and someone is going to take you on a movie data or something similar to that why would you ignore that. 

2. Ask her what do you do in your free time - If she says clubbing and Party. Again Red Flag ( Free time main insaan kuch dhang ka kaam karta hai aur wo ladki hai laundo ki tarah khaali baithe baithe hilati nahi rehti hai uske pass bhaut se side projects chalte rehte hongey. Koi bhi free time pe party nahi karta jab tak uska baap Amabani naa ho) 

3. Ask her what she does - This is very important if she says she studies, ask her what and which year ( Agar wo kahi bhi padhti hai usse ye sawaal pucho aur uske baad ask some random question google karke waha se. Kuch to pata hoga use. Wo padhti hai koi kitaab ka nam puch lo kuch bhi xyz. Kuch to aata hoga ). If she says she works ask her basic question matlab how many work days, which place and be smart. Kanjaaro beech main kuch farzi detail daal do. Jaise if she says she works in Let's suppose Congnizant in Google Process usko bol do haa mera ek dost hai Ranjith Randhawa waha Team Lead hai. Agar wo kahe haa to samajh jana kat raha hai tumhara. 

4. If she says let's meet in 1 hour or 2 hour this is the biggest sign. Thoda dimaag se socho koi ladki kyu itni desperate hogi ki tumse milne ke liye itni jaldi kare. Bhai Ranbir Kapoor jaise ka bhi kata hai ab tum khud ko dekh lo jaaek sheeshe main. I mean why? Mummy ke alawa koi aisa nhi hai duniya main jo apne bete ki jhooti tareef kare aur agar koi aur samne wala kar raha hai to samajh jaao kat raha hai tumhara. 

At the end my dear brothers of Delhi don't spend your time on these things and waste money. Bhai kuch accha kaam karo dhang ki hobbies karo apne upar kaam karo taaki future accha ho sake. Aur bhai Chutiya katwane se accha hai hila ke kaam chala lo. 

Now even after reading this if there is someone who is not aware than I don't have any sympathy with that victim. 

&amp;#x200B;