SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: Don't know what to do about 28M friend's ex bf. Fraud family, looking for some easy target.
AUTHOR: Obvious-Focus-3181
DATE: 2023-06-30
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/14mwq6z/dont_know_what_to_do_about_28m_friends_ex_bf/
--- POST TEXT ---

I am asking it on behalf of someone. 
My friend's bf got into share market and Bitcoin where he sometime gained and majorly lost all his money. 
Currently his financial situation is that : he have 8 lacs of credit card, from which none of them have money and apart from that so many big and small loans also, whose emis he's saying. 
Total 23 lacs 
He belongs to family of 4, parents and sister and him. Without letting his father know he applied for several credit cards and loans on his behalf as he works in paramilitary forces, mostly he's unavailable : total loan : 20 lacs
Sum total = 23+20 = 43 lacs and his salary is 45 k per month. 
Now this guy was in a relationship with my friend for like 8 years, where she was bearing the expenses since 4 years as he was facing a downfall, so, she uses to pay everywhere. Finance was never the issue between them.
Recently guy's family was pressurising him for marriage, when my friend intervened and said that she'll attempt suicide if he will marry someone else, as she can't imagine her life without him . 
Families met, before that girl's family decided to pay all his credit cards so that they can atleast live freely and only have to pay for loans. 
Now , the weird thing is that , boy's family said if he will marry his gf(my friend) then his family will not contribute to financial expenses, for which my friend and her family said. She can bear it by herself. 
Secondly they said if that guy will marry to gis parents choice , they are not going to tell that girl's family about loan as boy's father is going to bear the expenses. 
Yes, it is as absurd as it sounds. 
They belong to Mandi,Himachal Pradesh. 
My only concern here is ,my friend is getting treatment now due to nervous breakdown, as the guy and his family promised marriage, and suddenly after that particular night he stopped talking to her which impacted her mental health. 
Mostly people said it's because of black magic and all , because that boy's used to love my friend more than anything in this world, after that particular family meet-up, he was behaving like she never existed for him, which really impacted her mental health. 
These fraud people are roaming openly somewhere looking for some girl, who will have no idea about this family deeds. How will I save some innocents live before they will ruin it as they did for my friend?
My friend isn't ready to take the legal action as she recently lost her father also.