SOURCE: Reddit - r/HimachalPradesh
STATE: Himachal Pradesh
TITLE: Property scam going on in himachal ?
AUTHOR: Fit-Cod-7923
DATE: 2024-08-25
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/HimachalPradesh/comments/1f0w59u/property_scam_going_on_in_himachal/
--- POST TEXT ---

I wasn't going to make a post about it because this is technically hearsay (I am not going to name and shame for the same reason) but it has been weighing on my heart and I needed to talk to someone about it. 

**If there's truth to it,people on reddit will be able to identify the person and it might save future victims of this scam. So, I am gonna take this chance**

We visited this beautiful and serene place last year but only realised its ugly truth last month. This touristic place is near Naldehra. There's a small gorgeous restaurant, res0rt and almost the entire village land has been bought by the owner. Its a picturesque village. The owner has made a "posh society" on that land ...I saw around 5-6 apartment buildings over there. Some were fully constructed and sold and the others were still being made. We just visited the restaurant and couldn't care less about the buildings but I did wonder how he managed to buy that entire land.

A month back, we were sitting in a restaurant in dharamshala when we heard people who were talking about a sikh himachali guy who first bought the land for very little money from the villagers near naldehra 💰 (basically fooled them) and now they are employed as servants in their own land. 
On top of that ,he sells those flats for 1-2 crores or more to outsiders and non himachalis. There's a catch!⚠️ He's fooling them. Those extremely expensive luxury flats are actually poorly constructed and not fit for residential purpose. One guy went as far as saying that those were "paper walls". 
"You must have heard of ceiling leaking in the top floor but in those buildings, all floor leak from multiple sides. That man is extremely corrupt" He said.

Most locals will immediately identify the problem with such flats and that can land him in trouble.
There are businessmen based in Dubai, Punjab, Delhi etc. who buy flats for investment purposes or as vacay houses and that man targets them. Most of them don't live there. 

The people who have bought those flats ( and actually want to live there for some
time) complain about the poor construction.
This is what he does to them...He will pretend to care about the problem first and do minor repairs but he knows that this is going to be a permanent problem because of the cheap materials he has used.

After multiple complaints, he starts socially boycotting them. Removing from whatsapp groups, boycotting them from any society activities and harassing them in multiple ways. 
This is very sad.

Many villagers are also not happy with him.
To Himachalis, I just wanna say that do not sell your ancestral land to some crook and my only advice to outsiders is to not spend your hard earned money on some "posh society" in some unknown village just because it looks nice on the outside. There's a lot of scammers who take advantage of people's ignorance.
No one liked getting scammed. 

I feel bad for all parties here except him. I hope the moderators let this post breathe here because I know this subreddit has a lot of outsiders and the reddit crowd generally comes from well to do and educated families (the kind he targets) so some victim might come forward and this whole scam might get exposed with some actual evidence.

Can any locals from the place spill some tea about this "valley" 🍵 ?