SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: Fraud case of a widow getting manipulated into buying a piece of land from her employer but the person never bought the land and gave her the money back from last 2 years.
AUTHOR: knockoutttt
DATE: 2022-09-20
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/xjco2n/fraud_case_of_a_widow_getting_manipulated_into/
--- POST TEXT ---

Background of this lady : 

She is a widow whose husband died in an accident few years back after which she took care of her two sons with whatever sum of money her husband left her with, He wasn’t a gov. employee and works independently as a land broker so it’s all his saving which she used to make her sons independent. One of his son is a taxi driver and other works in Infosys and married to a girl who also works there. 
They are not from a well to do family but lady is very humble and kind. 

How I met her : 

I am an apiarist so I met her last year when she was employed as a receptionist for a person (the fraudster) who is also an apiarist, since then me and this lady are in constant touch. 

The fraud : 

So this fraudster manipulates her into buying a piece of land from him and act as a middle man but he never bought the land and took 8L of her husband’s saving, in which 5L are done electronically and the rest are in cash form. 

This transaction happened 2 years back and since then he is making excuses after excuses and refusing to give her the money back. 

Also he haven’t even paid her monthly salary from 4-5 months after which she decided to quit the job but then I think this is what he wanted from the beginning because he knows that she is not educated and powerful enough to do anything against him. He had done the same with his labours. 

Over the time I’ve learned that this fraudster had manipulated and fooled many people from an old lady(deceased) to low wage labours. There are 2 cases running against him already which I am aware of but this guy is still in open and manipulating innocent people lives. 

The proof : 

She had the online receipt of 5L and multiple call recording where he had accepted taking 8L from her. 

My demand :

I am not a lawyer but wise and educated enough to understand the importance of legal consequences, this lady is poor and in doubt. I would like to get her a lawyer(if possible a gov. funded lawyer) to help build a very strong case against him. 

I am convincing this lady from last year to file a case against him and after all that time today when I went to meet her she took my advice and decide to take the legal step. Since I don’t know how to help her in that direction further I came here for your help. 

Location : Southwest Delhi