SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: Yet Another Tinder Scam - lost 15k
AUTHOR: Prize_Weird_603
DATE: 2023-09-03
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1692eq9/yet_another_tinder_scam_lost_15k/
--- POST TEXT ---

This happened yesterday (Saturday).

Yesterday a girl wanted to meet in "Rajouri Garden". I reached, then she sent another location 1km away and called me to meet at a place called "cafe studio". The place looked shady, I told her " Let's go to someplace that has a good maps rating". She insisted, and I who hadn't dated for at least two years, agreed out of my pathetic desperation. She said this place was new but she had come here for her friend's birthday. There was one another couple sitting there which added a bit of authenticity to my already messed-up sense of judgment.

Long story short we had a crappy hookah - 5k. Then we had 5 60ml vodka shots each costing 800 each - 8k. vodka was crappy, 5x60 ml shots = 300 ml which is quite a lot, and I barely felt I had anything. This, combined with fries and service charge, I was billed 15.5k which got reduced to 14k. By now, I understood what it was and could only blame my own pathetic desperation, as all logic was screaming at me earlier. I smiled at the waiter, respectfully admitted my defeat, and didn't make a scene.

Interestingly the dude from the only other couple was also complaining about the bill. I went to his table and we confirmed we had been scammed. He had to pay 11k He suggested no point in filing a police complaint since police will sometimes visit our homes for follow-ups and our family will know which is worse than the bill. Together, it was 25k for both of us. We just paid and left. Then we became bros and went to a spa to calm ourselves. It uplifted our mood and was the best thing in the whole day.

Today I had another match - this scam girl wanted to go to a cafe called "XO Lodge" in Cross River Mall. Forget bad ratings, the place did not even exist in Google Maps. Fool me once shame on you, fool me twice shame on me. Yesterday's lesson was fresh in my memory.

So I asked the waiter to show me the menu before taking a seat. Saw the same prices. Told the girl, This place is a fraud, and let's go somewhere else. She got scared like shit and went to the washroom. Then she came out, pretended to get a call from her Dad, and had to leave urgently. Looking at how pathetic and weak she really was I said: fine leave and warned her later on WhatsApp that one day she would end up in jail.

I got a call from another girl to meet in Ghaziabad - Raj Nagar next weekend. Maybe she is a genuine person. But I am just going to tell her I am not going to a place where a shot costs 800 or a hookah costs 5k to save time for both of us. I do not want to dump this on her and be respectful about it.

&amp;#x200B;