SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: Has anyone being victim of Act Fibernet fraudulent scehemes and services?
AUTHOR: abhidas0
DATE: 2023-08-08
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/15kvyhq/has_anyone_being_victim_of_act_fibernet/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hello people of Delhi,
I have been cheated and defrauded by act Fibernet.

I was initally subscribed by the sales executive for 6+1 months plans and I was coerced into taking that plan despite informing him, that my accounts does not allow for opting that plan.

He offered me to pay part payment and I can pay remaining amount when the app asks for it.

Then in the month of March I internet was disconnected due to non payment, and I was asked to pay the amount which was for 3 months plan, I raised a ticket and got it recitified and paid the amount deficit for 6+1 months plan, but it took around 25-27 days to resolve the issue.

Then again in June, 2023, my plan was deactivated owing no nonpayment and it is obviously still deactivated.

It came as an utter shock, because I opted by 6+1 months plan and this happened twice that my connection was disconnected in three months duration/plan.

The sales executive offered me 6+1 months plan but activated 3 months plan.

The point to be noted here that my plan was for unlimited 50 Mbps internet speed, but I never received the promised speed and the speed which I got was 25 to 35 Mbps only. I raised several complaint but was of not use.

I again raised a ticket, in which act Fibernet accepted that they were at fault and offered to waive off my previous dues and asked me to pay for another 6+2 months plans where 2 months was free as compensation for the fault they did. 

So in the total of 7 months plan I could only use internet for 5 months so I refused their offer and asked to give me my two months due and I will the subscribe the 3 or 6 months plan depending on my budget, but rhey refused.

Now I am going to send then a legal notice and also file a consumer complaint for deficiency of services, cheating and fraud by the sales executive voilating various sections of sale of goods act.

If anyone who have been a victim of Act Fibernet, please comment and if you'll allow I would like to file a joint complaint against them for compensation.

Regards.