SOURCE: Reddit - r/Assam
STATE: Assam
TITLE: How to Meet People in Dibrugarh (dating &amp; friends)
AUTHOR: Ok-Operation7666
DATE: 2024-01-11
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/assam/comments/19441ro/how_to_meet_people_in_dibrugarh_dating_friends/
--- POST TEXT ---

I'm (25M) a good looking guy and usually the tallest in the room, I've had no trouble finding matches and dates through dating apps in cities like Delhi, Kolkata, and Bangalore even though I'm selective in swiping. But I barely find dates in this part of assam. 

(I'm sorry I don't mean to come across rude, but I mentioned it just to give you a complete understanding of the situation)

So how do people find dates in dibrugarh? Is it mainly through dating apps, college, personal friend networks, or irl events?

I used bumble mainly and the few times I see a profile that I'd get along with (similar interest in culture/media, personality, and appearance) I match but the girl says she's scared of meeting cause her parents may find out through someone in the town. And quite a few others seem to be only here for a short time before they go back to the city their college/job is at. And others are straight up looking for marriage. Also in general it's not very common to find someone attractive and cosmopolitan on dating apps around here. Or they delete their whole account if I'm late to respond by like 5 hours???

But when I go to dibrugarh, I see attractive cosmopolitan girls much more and often times they're with dudes nowhere near as attractive. 

So is it true that people are very wary of online dating here, and only date from personal friend/college networks? And that they're worried their parents may know in a small town? Or am I just using the wrong apps, or should try other ways of meeting people?

I live 30 mins away from dibrugarh, and have no irl friends here. All my friends are from my high school and college days, and I'll go to the cities to meet them twice a year. So how do I also make friends with people platonically who I would share similar interests with around here?

I was born and raised around this part of upper assam(dib/moran/tsk/djn).Then went to Kolkata for high school and delhi for college. I was supposed to move to Bangalore where my job was based out of, but then before the pandemic ended I found online jobs that paid better than my blr job. So I stayed here to save on living costs of the city and use the money I earned on a project I'm working on.

So that's my background. Gets lonely at times. I'd even be fine with having platonic male friends if we shared similar interests and got along. 

P.S: I've hooked up twice with women off dating apps here, one of them (2022) was a studying in dibrugarh but her home was elsewhere. So no fear of parents knowing I guess. And the other was in 2023 but seemed shady like she was trying to honey trap me and had friends who were involved in a drug gang (long story 😂)