SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: Property Dealers Who are looting people
AUTHOR: ThrowRameowkat
DATE: 2025-04-08
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1juber4/property_dealers_who_are_looting_people/
--- POST TEXT ---

Last month, I moved out of Gurgaon and got a flat in chattarpur. The property dealer whom I met was very polite and seemed like a good guy. They showed me 4-5 properties from which I selected one in birla farms. Now as per the property dealer he should have handed me over the complete house with deep cleaning and proper finishing. The guy took 2 months of advance payment 1 month rent + 1 month rent as security + brokerage. However when I came in and shifted the flat was no where near finished. They just broomed the floors and left it out. The bathroom was as dirty as it could get, the fans weren't working. I called the guy and asked him about it it was Sunday offcourse. He replied "bhai aaj to electrian ayega nhi apko kal kara k deta hu". I thought thik h kal tak wait karta hu wo kara dega. Next day he sent electrician and the electrician suggested to change the flats electronic etc. We did it. 

Now things which pissed me off, as per his promise the flat was supposed to bit finished. But

Bathroom was not clean, the shower did not have the tap to run. The commode was dirty and the flush was broken. The inside of the doors didn't have locks the kitchen cupboard and drawers were still broken. Right infront of the flat there were garbage which were not disposed off and eventually I had to pay from my own pockets to clean that out. This is not just with me another tenant whom I met few days back has the same issues and is leaving the flat because of it same as I. 

My mistakes here were that I gave the dealer complete payment without checking up the house before moving in
Didn't properly read the rent agreement before signing in as, when taking the keys for the house the dealer was in haste and I was late so I go through the papers properly. 

I have lost aroung 20k to this scam and I am leaving this flat because it's not worth the money I am paying. The dealer at first rejected that he would refund me the security amount but after argument he agreed to give 50%. This I doubt he'll refund as he scams people.

Can anyone advise further what can be done next to make sure I get my part of refund. And any advise to help me get it done if he denies or cheats me again