SOURCE: Reddit - r/Chandigarh
STATE: Chandigarh
TITLE: Broker not returning money
AUTHOR: Bhindi12rupaykilo
DATE: 2024-07-20
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Chandigarh/comments/1e7qe21/broker_not_returning_money/
--- POST TEXT ---

Well, pretty much as the title says.
I got a room with broker and met the house owner with him.
Deal was finalised and the broker said to transfer money to him so I transferred Rs. 40,000 to him.
(20,000 + 20,000)(rent + security)
I paid him the brokerage that he asked and all seemed well.
Now it turns out he never transferred the security to land owner, and made fabricated statements on behalf.
e.g:-
 "tenant has been facing financial difficulties won't be able to transfer this month, he has specifically requested me to talk to you, don't mention it to him, he will be embarrassed" 

All this time he encouraged both sides to not engage to each other, claiming to me that, landlord has appointed him, and to the landlord that, the tenant is in deep trouble, relay all messages through me.
I was actively discouraged to talk to landlord.

All the time I was oblivious to this, he further asked me to send the monthly money to him claiming he acts as manager.
He has transferred the monthly rent to landlord not the security I initially paid.

I was not in room for 2 months and upon returning the landlord did confront me and told me everything, I showed him all the payment records and he realised the scam as did I.
I got to know further that the monthly payments i used to give to him on 1st of month, used to be transferred to the landlord by 20th.

Each time the broker would make frivolous statements out of thin air.

We have both(me and landlord) been calling him now, the broker either doesn't pick up and when he does, says, "my father is very sick , he is in Gangaram hospital Delhi, I will call when I reach Delhi" 

What should be the process to recover money?

Any suggestions? Observations?

Thanks

Mu account is new but the situation is authentic.
Any help will be much appreciated. Thanks