SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: Bumble Dating App Pub Food Scams in Delhi @karkardooma Cross River Mall Big Daddy &amp; Probably in GTB Nagar too (Let's meet today)
AUTHOR: jonsnow_ViSa
DATE: 2023-04-07
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/12eiqao/bumble_dating_app_pub_food_scams_in_delhi/
--- POST TEXT ---

Original Post -

A girl I met on bumble asked me "Let's meet today" and she was very keen on meeting the same day and asked me to come to karkardooma court &amp; then to cross river mall and then she took me to this place "Big Daddy" or some similar name at Karkardooma, Cross River Mall Delhi - This place is probably running a scam with some girls on dating apps.

At this place - They showed me a very small one pager menu with Hooka for 8k-12k around, 30 ml pegs of Blackdog/Voda etc starting at 800-1200 bucks each and the girl ordered a vodka shot &amp; gulped it and was interested in repeating the drink and wanted to order the hukka too.

Food was mentioned as Veg for 1200 &amp; non veg 1400 or similar rate and no detail of what what is in veg &amp; what is in nonveg.

For bill they gave me a kaccha Receipt &amp; not even a taxed bill.(Also another girl that I was matched with a week back had also ask me to come to cross river mall &amp; that same girl I saw sitting at this place as well. She got a big tattoo on her arm). I have pics of both of the women with me.

I also called cyber crime &amp; talked to them and they told me to call the normal police &amp; tell them about it. I wanted to stay anonymous so I didn't call the normal Police but I tried to reach Cyber crime website and they do not have option to register anonymous complaint for such matters.

I have also Heard of scams like taking lot of vodka shots by girls at GTB Pubs with whom you met on dating apps and taking your bill to reach a high value like10k or above.

I am again going on such a date today at GTB nagar / hudson lane (Again she said "lets meet today") and I am already assuming it will be a scam if not then its good to go.

UPDATE: Similar Profiles I have received for Hauz khas, &amp; multiple for Raj Nagar. All of these are not great places for sure and again girls have similar attributes - Aged 24 and D.U

1. @ Nasty commenters: I generally go mentally prepared to pay for the first date and its a general courtesy which is being followed among the educated (Not literate) men class and I have also met many fine women in my life from dating apps and we have randomly paid on dates instead of splitting the bills. So all those misers go on ranting as much as you want in the comments. My post was not focused on 'ur comments but was about making public aware even if that makes me look stupid.And read it carefully - as I Never said "Hukka was ordered" or I was the one who spent 10k. The purpose of this post was to spread the word &amp; make people aware of such scams even if I have to take some of the stupid &amp; rude comments because people can do that as its free of charge and this doesn't discourage me from letting others know about the things/scams going around.
2. Today an hour before leaving for GTB I told the girl "I have heard there are many scams going on in GTB pubs &amp; someone has told me that so we will not go to a pub but will go to some cafe for non alcoholic beverage+food". At that time she agreed &amp; she was curious what scams do u mean &amp; all. When I was about to leave I texted her &amp; called her and she didn't pick the call and then texted me back "sorry I wont be able to come, it is not possible .. bla bla". So now I am quite sure even she was a Scammer.
3. Why I was still going for GTB again because I can't just sit home &amp; behave scared of the world. If I stop dating then I was not just scammed of money but also robbed of strength &amp; life. (This doesn't mean I payed for scams again but now since I know the game already I will also play it carefully).

Profile of such traps as per my experience -

1. Very eager to meet like come today only to meet.
2. Pehle yahan aajao fir dekh lenge konse cafe chalna hai.
3. she is at some distance from you and is not really in 10kms range as in you wouldn't know that area much.

PS - I actually feel more humiliated here by the comments I have received more than the scam itself. This post was made to make public aware of the scams and I honestly feel now it was a mistake. Because the kind of audience which is here on this website is worse than scammers itself. Audience here has the power to write anything so they are abusing that and scammers probably have the political &amp; money power so they are doing that. I will still try to ignore such comments and keep the post here for the public welfare.

UPDATE-2 in June:Thankyou, to all of those who have sent me personal messages sharing their similar experiences. And many of those who are asking "like they have met a girl who is asking to meet you quickly in a day from same area and asking for advice or girls pics" ... take it as "high chances of a scam" so if you are going then be prepared to backout before spending if it looks completely scam.

Recall those Fraud ads which promise high return in short times. It similar to those as if its too good to be true its likely a scam.Scammers show their desperation to get money from you so they need you to come quickly or they will unmatch you as they don't want to waste time on someone that they can't make money on.I have come across few more girl profiles from laxmi nagar or east delhi area who wanted to meet karkardooma. So I think its a big list of girls involved in this.I have also met a genuine girl from east delhi area but we took 2 weeks or more to decide to meet.

I apologies for not replying to all individual messages and not sharing girls images as that could be legal privacy issues.

&amp;#x200B;

\#scams #delhi #dating #crossrivermall #gtb #bumble #tinder