SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: Maybe my friend got job scammed, after paying now they are ignoring her. She doesn't want anyone else to feel terrible like her.
AUTHOR: Irvif
DATE: 2025-03-21
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1jglf08/maybe_my_friend_got_job_scammed_after_paying_now/
--- POST TEXT ---

My frnd (u/Haunting-Echinda4524) can't post because she made account yesterday only (so am quoting her post she tried to post):

"This is not a rant or attention post. I'm purely posting it to spread awareness and so other people won't suffer like me. 

I'm f22, I am desperate and trying to find job for past 1 month but to no avail. 
Some days ago a company contacted me for the job offer of data entry and sales/marketing and actually a lot of people of that company contacted me altogether. 
I looked into it and the ad was looking genuine in the app (I don't know app could even register fraudsters.)
I then looked into details and sent my resume, interview was scheduled next day. 

The main clause that seduced me was "job within 10km from residence and work from home, along with day timing"
So I said yes and went to the venue it's in gurugram (quite far from my house actually) uttam nagar east. 
After reaching venue, the office setup? Had all kind of posters of the said company, meaning name of company and etc. 
Some guys were standing outside looking for interview candidates and guiding them inside.
Inside there was a hall and a lot of people/candidates (really a lot) were sitting inside. A guy was maintaining register and writing names of candidates along with whom they were referred by. 
Surprisingly even with so many candidates, I got called out for interview within 10 min of sitting there. 

I went in and the lady started interview, asked me basic excel questions plus some definitions (surprisingly she didn't ask for typing speed, which actually made me start having the doubt). 
Then she asked about what kind of account I have, I said savings so she asked for money to open salary account so company can give salary in that. 
She started saying clauses and what kind of work I'll be doing, asking are you okay with this much distance, is your family allowing you etc. 
I asked for some time to think, as I didn't want to pay without considering everything. 
But she started saying how her company has been in this kind of work for almost 2 yrs, they have quite a number of employees (she showed me pic, then showed me her Co worker's WhatsApp picture which had her and a lot of other people). 
I kinda believed that they are genuine, asked some other questions like when can I expect joining and which company. 

She said it'll be 10-15 km from your house, we select candidates and those people then work for company, they will be given certificate and other job related things. 
I didn't believe her but yah i was desperate for a job (logical mind shut off) .
After some other talking (she was talking a lot and really fast) she asked for money again and I paid this time (it was 6k,which I actually earned through working as a home tutor for a kid),and one more thing, she said this money will be given back after joining. 
After that I went away and after reaching home I dialed the helpline number, I made my frnds dial the number etc but no one picked up the call. 

I then looked for their contact info on truecaller and everything still looks genuine, idk maybe I'm anxious and doesn't trust anyone but I have this teeny tiny feeling that they are fraudsters. 

They picked up the call in the evening and are still replying fine, but just this feeling idk how to explain. 

They are saying that joining will be in next month and money will be given back then only. 

Am i being anxious for no reason? For the past 3 days I have been having anxiety knots in my tummy and it is making my mental health worse.

I hope they are not fraudsters but if they are other people should be aware of such frauds. I don't want anyone to suffer the same fate, as I have seen people doing stupid things in desperation and then regret taking all the remaining energy in them. 

Sorry for making it look like a rant, I just like writing novels as hobby so that muscle memory of involving details made this post so lengthy. 

I'm attaching their job location contact. (tbh I have their contact number (4-5 numbers actually), but I don't think sharing someone's contact is ethical and I'm not even sure if they are actually fraudsters or not so I'll only share job location for now)."

TL;DR - My friend think she got job scammed and she doesn't want others to have same fate.