SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kerala
STATE: Kerala
TITLE: Malabar gold (Kozhikode)scam, no bill, slashed weight of glue and enamel(??) from gold!
AUTHOR: Anxious_Prize_6095
DATE: 2022-06-25
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kerala/comments/vkjrpl/malabar_gold_kozhikodescam_no_bill_slashed_weight/
--- POST TEXT ---

Today my parents went to malabar gold, kozhikode, to sell an old bangle bought from there a few years back. The salesperson took the gold, weighed it and asked us to wait near the counter. After 1.5hrs of waiting, my father asked the man sitting in the counter about it( the man didn't wear an uniform like others) , he said that the amount has been paid to someone(not us)(they didn't give any acknowledgement receipt with the weight and stuff). My parents started questioning this. The uniformed salesmen came (whom we gave the gold to initially)and he checked what happened. Soon they informed that the amount was transferred to another persons account(WTF). Again, my parents questioned this and the person at the counter started counting money to give to us( mostly bcz a small crowd was forming there by now). He gave my parents money in hand and started scribbling the weight and cash calculations in a paper and handed out to us(no printed bill)(they had an elaborate ad campaign on doing only billed purchases/transactions, ironically!). My father questioned this(again!) and demanded a detailed bill(this would mean the money will be transferred to bank account). They give the bill and in it they reduced 4grams from the gold as weight of stones. My parents started arattu as the stones were only 2grams (lost all patience by now). The original purchase bill( which another kind uniformed salesmen pulled out for us from the system) showed 2grams of stone. They slashed an extra 2grams for the "glue and enamel" in it, (they took money from us for the full weight when we bought it few years back, their gold is shitty and impure as they admit). Arguments were made and the man at the counter made efforts to silence my parents. We could tell that the salesmen gathered there were in our side and kept silent and supporting us in small ways( he was a regular scammer trying to pull out tricks with everyone?) Eventually the guy gave in as evidence started mounting against him and added the extra 2 grams;then, gave a new printed bill.

The man at the counter didn't wear a uniform and the salespersons were not too font of him either. We suspect he was someone too close to the management and trying to scam and make a fool of unsuspecting, gullible customers. 

The "glue, enamel" price cut and no-bill/cash-in-hand were new experience for us, after being customers for almost 23years with them. One man spoiled the whole deal for us. Never again!

We only have the last receipt with us and my parents didn't think of recording the incident. Only the jewellery CCTV visuals exist to prove the whole incident and also we're not interested in going to court. I'll be giving a complaint to malabar gold for internal enquiry, just in case the management is not aware of this fraud already. Just putting the matter out here to spread awareness and keep clear of such dicks even in a seemingly decent jewellery which advocates trust and transperency!