SOURCE: Reddit - r/Haryana
STATE: Haryana
TITLE: How my University gave me PTSD &amp; Hameorrhoids!!
AUTHOR: Parking_Tap6355
DATE: 2024-07-24
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Haryana/comments/1eah5cm/how_my_university_gave_me_ptsd_hameorrhoids/
--- POST TEXT ---

Throwaway account 
I am a top scoring, hard working child all my life and even though I gave jee mains with little preparation (due to shitty mentally abusive father) I managed to score 93 percentile in jee mains.

And I left many colleges some lower IIITs &amp; GFTI all because everyone around me kept saying of joining state government university cuz it had high reputation and was close to my hometown which is in haryana. After joining my university all it has given me is PTSD and haemorrhoids and I am writing about this to advice fellow young people.

I joined my University - YMCA no.1 haryana state government university cuz everyone kept saying it is good. sadly due to reservation I got electronics &amp; computer Engineering. which I took. During joining my univeristy, the first year was online but I went there during counselling and the main road is even worse than village roads. Over the course of my btech, I got to know my university had 50 year old boys hostels with worse living conditions (like no water while poop, low quality mess) and then the boys hostel got demolished and the boys has to fend for themselves, then comes the university infra which is far below - worst quality bathrooms (especially boys), no drinking water facility after 1 pm, bad ventilation in class (of 70), no ACs - fucking hot in summers in faridabad.

All the above things are managable since as a boy we are treated low (girls get hostel with proper infra and high quality mess, we get no hostel)

Then comes the blow, basically the university has a unwritten rule that no matter what, only ce &amp; it students should get high cgpa and others low so as to boost placements. This fucked me - I worked very hard and the teachers used to deduct 6 no. out of 10 in a question even if answer is correct and when questioned most teachers say get exam rechecked by paying (I questioned seniors who paid for rechecking they said rechecking is waste since they deduct in their too), they are all high on their ego of "sarkari naukri status", After working so hard and begging to teachers and sometimes cried in private to teachers for cgpa I managed to get 7.5 cgpa, all of this while I had other family responsibilities and lived in faridabad on rent and let me tell you faridabad is such a worse city it gave me haemorrhoids at age 21 and while all this severe stress in my university for scoring good cgpa gave me PTSD and didn't allowed me to gove time to coding.

Then placements came in my university and good paying companies 10lpa+ had criteria of 8.2 cgpa and guess what in the shortlisted excel sheet 90% students are ce &amp; it, only 6 students out my class of 65 got above 8.2 cgpa (5 of them lived in faridabad or in girls hostel with all facilities)

only 1 mechanical, &amp; no civil student with higher cgpa than 8.2 even when some companies allowed them in placement.

I request everyone not to join YMCA , my friends in my class all had 0 coding skills and had gave up on placements and let me tell you these friends scored 95-97percentile in jee mains. Everyone is depressed in my college and no events are hold. It's hell for sure.

This clg gave me such low cgpa, my abroad dreams are broken, and now suffering my PTSD &amp; haemorrhoids with little to none coding skills.

My friends scored 70 percentile and enjoying the time of their life while I suffer even after working hard.

The friends I had taken a flat are detained from my univeristy and my university is very strict - caught speaking/cheating in exam - fail all exams; 
attendance &lt;75% - detained (here money don't work and by detain a student btech of 4 years turns into 5 years)

Do not join state government universities!! low quality, outdated curriculum, and if your clg has high reputation and is not private - be prepared with biased checking based on branch &amp; gender.

Made me close to suicide, I still sometimes have thoughts about it. Will not attempt it for sure.

haryana education is lacking so much. Even my older cousin brother has PTSD, he got CAT 98.5 percentage.