SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kerala
STATE: Kerala
TITLE: HC orders on Sprinklr Issue
AUTHOR: SuperLeftLeftist
DATE: 2020-04-24
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kerala/comments/g765uw/hc_orders_on_sprinklr_issue/
--- POST TEXT ---

The bench is now starting to dictate the order.

"Data confidentiality is about protection of data from unauthorized access. 

Authorization to access data is the high mast for data confidentiality.Corner stone for data confidentiality is determined by control over access to data and modus and manner in which it is dealt with."

Court records the submission of Addl Advocate General that Kerala Govt has no objection to approach the Government of India to avail services of NIC to substitute Sprinklr 

"We are not prepared to affirmatively state anything on the various allegations raised by the petitioners. Our focus is on ensuring that there is no breach of data confidentiality as to the data collected and processed by Sprinklr"

"We want to ensure that there is no data epidemic after the COVID-19 epidemic", HC states in the order.

The following directions are issued :

a) Govt to Kerala directed to anonymize all data that have been collected and collated so far, and allow Sprinklr to access data only after such anonymization is completed

Kerala HC records submission of N S Nappinai that Sprinklr is not in possession of data as of present and all data has been transferred to Kerala Govt

Kerala HC injuncts Sprinklr from committing any act which will be in breach of confidentiality of data entrusted with them by Kerala Govt under the impugned contract.

Sprinklr shall not directly or indirectly deal with the data entrusted to them by the Kerala Govt in conflict with the confidentiality clauses in the contract, and will return the data as soon as their contractual obligations are over.

Any residual or secondary data with Sprinklr shall be immediately deleted : Kerala HC orders

Sprinklr further injuncted from advertising that they are in possession or have access to any data of COVID-19 patients in Kerala : HC orders

Kerala HC injuncts Sprinklr from exploiting directly or indirectly any data entrusted with it for commercial purposes.

Sprinklr further injuncted from using the name or logo of Government of Kerala for its promotional acts.

Kerala HC also issues a direction that Government of Kerala should inform individuals that the data will be accessed by Sprinklr and that the individuals specific consent for such data collections should be obtained.

Source: https://twitter.com/LiveLawIndia