SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: Phone Scam of ₹25,000
AUTHOR: Old-Jackfruit3469
DATE: 2023-08-20
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/15vwn32/phone_scam_of_25000/
--- POST TEXT ---

My father is 45+, for the sake of anomonisity let's call his name Rahul Singh. 
He works at an Y company in Delhi, and goes with 2 more colleagues by car pooling, let's call them Colleagues A and B and have frequent and regular conversations.

Sometimes, they take other colleagues with them from their city to their company, if they have some problem. A colleague D has went with them once in their car, my Father and him have engaged in normal kind of hello -hi from before and they had know each other beforehand, but never engaged in frequent conversations and they both haven't saved each other's phone no. This was also 1 month before. 

Coming to yesterday, College D gets a call, where the name being displayed was Rahul Singh, and when he picked the call, the caller said, hi this is Rahul Singh, your colleague from Y. He then told that he is not being able to transfer money in one particular account, asked him to pay 25k in that account and that he would send the money to his account. Thankfully colleague D sensed something was not right, he told him he was driving and will look to it when he reaches home, the man said No issues, I am also sending you 25k in your account, you will soon see the message and then transfer it to that account. 

Then D called A, and asked him tell me mobile number of Rahul, when he saw they didn't match, first he blocked the number, and then told A what happened, then A called my father and told him the story.

Now what's scary for me is how the scammer knew that they both haven't saved each other's number, how they don't talk regularly so he wouldn't be able to recognise the name, when they have engaged in offline conversations only. And the office is reputable and everyone gets a good salary, no one from there too would do something like that and the company has very strict rules, so no one can even think of doing that. And if D had payed up the money, my father would have become the main culprit.

What are the precautions we can take to ensure that our data isn't breaching, and any other precautions too to be safe from such situations. Also, is it true that if our internet is on, the Phone too listens to it and that data could be shared anywhere??