SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: Why we are normalizing embezzlement in name of religion or charity?
AUTHOR: Dr-clitoris
DATE: 2025-01-14
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1i14bgd/why_we_are_normalizing_embezzlement_in_name_of/
--- POST TEXT ---

So today on the occasion of Basant pachami 3 adult men knocked our doors. We live in 3 floored flats in Ghaziabad, decent society but flooded with so called Hindu radicals who would do anything to take down any meat shop or food court but won't be accountable when there is any fraud going on in . Unfortunately no one else there was there in our home that time except my mom who was very religious and naive at same time, the fraudsters got their chance and with sheer conviction they straight away handed a devi mata pamphlet with nothing but 'maa ke darshan' written with a random phone number and enquired my mom's name and phone number and noted it somewhere like a frikin census taker.. Then they asked for the fund saying they are hosting some bhandara near Shiv mandir (god knows what mandir exactly they were talking about).my mother hesitated a bit and asked them to come later and ask for the same when my dad comes home. thrn all of sudden their body language and played the emotional-religious card begin convincing like she shouldn't refuse any donation or charity on this auspicious day.Every hindu bhai here is coming together to make this charitable feast possible and our family should also contribute it. they asked "just 1000 rupees" later but my mother still being skeptical came it down to 500 rupees.not to ignore they were very intimidating. they finally agreed and left chanting bolo shere wale mata ki jay, we reached our home after an hour our so, and my mother discussed the matter,her description and that pamphlet made us believed that they were scammers for sure, their described appearance were very foreign to our locality( we are living here since 9 years) , even the mentioned phone number was unreachable when we dialed it later. Also the bhandara is on 22nd jan which made me wonder that if any auspicious day is there(do let me know if anything is there). I know there was fault in my mom's part she even didn't ask for there locality or identity.But believe me the way those bastards were charging on her as she was describing, it was not that easy to refuse them considering she was alone.Also this is not first time we are hearing fraud like this in our locality. Our neighbours didn't even took it seriously and said to move on, ironical how they themselves refused them when those men asked for funds to them. Even I'm hindu but felt very awful for our community on where we are heading to and how no one dares to speak against it or expose them. And the fact that i have never heard other religion or communities like jain and sikhs doing such frauds speaks for itself.Gotta praise sikh community here on doing such big langars without any malpractices or bribes successfully..