SOURCE: Reddit - r/Odisha
STATE: Odisha
TITLE: Why is odisha civil society so weak?
AUTHOR: Expensive_Phase11
DATE: 2023-12-12
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Odisha/comments/18giv0c/why_is_odisha_civil_society_so_weak/
--- POST TEXT ---

As a major state we probably have the least influential civil society in the country. The educated population of odisha is good for nothing

First let's talk about the mining scam.

During 2000-2010, many mining companies in Odisha were found doing excess mining which costed the govt so much revenue but somehow everyone got away with it. 

B prabhakaran whose company Thriveni earthmovers was accused as being not just a mining company, it also had influence on the odisha BJD govt. Every company that wanted to do mining in odisha needed to give contract to Thriveni earthmovers or they wouldn't get clearances from the govt. 

But now nobody discusses about the mining scam, B prabhakaran is roaming freely and receiving awards. His wife buying lands in bhubaneswar that block other welfare works. When bbsr mp aparijita sarangi raised her voice against them, prabhakaran's wife sent a legal notice to aparijitaand asked her to beg for forgiveness, the audacity!! Do you think prabhakaran family have this much influence without govt's support?

The bureaucratic govt that the peole of odisha take so much pride in, it's good only on paper. On may paper it may show odisha as a rich state but that money isn't reaching the poor people of odisha. 

This govt shows odisha as revenue surplus state and all of you rejoice but do you know the meaning of it? It means the govt isn't spending on education, health and infra. 

Do you have any idea how much a temporary govt teacher is paid in odisha? It's around 7000 to 8000. Do you think we will get quality teachers with this salary? 

My village is in khordha district along NH 16, everything in my village is good and I used to think odisha is developing so quickly and used feel happy, but recently I visited a village slightly inside forest area near pur village and was shocked to see the living conditions there. It looked like my village in 2000s. There was no high school, just a small school with 2 teachers for primary education.

We boast about having more per capita engineering seats but most of them are lying vacant, do you know why? Because most of the students in Odisha aren't going for higher education, the ones that go for higher studies prefer good colleges outside odisha. 

I am seeing our per capita income increasing but I am not seeing that on ground, in my village most of the young are going to Hyderabad, Bangalore as construction workers. Most of the young population is drug addicted. People have no wealth. The older generation work in stone mines or run shops. I am not seeing anyone working in any industry or manufacturing.

If my village that is in khordha district have this type of condition then what about other districts?

There are still places in odisha where railways or roadways haven't reached. We still see news about people carrying patients on their shoulders to hospital. The tribal population of odisha still hasn't come mainstream. There are still irregularities in mining sector. The progress of infrastructure development is still slow and subpar compared to other parts of the country. Our human resources are still not developed. 

Sometimes I think if this income increase is because of over reporting by this bureaucratic govt and othere states underreport to receive more support from the govt.

I don't see people from odisha raising their voice regarding neglect of odisha by central govt, I don't see people raising their voice against Naveen Pattnaik, it's like Naveen Pattnaik is some feudal lord of odisha. 

Do people of odisha not realise we live in a democracy?

We do we have a such politically inactive population. 

Do people really think kalia yojna money will uplift them from poverty?

Why do most of the people in Odisha still work as migrant labourers in other states if we have so much industries?

Why did everyone forgot about the mining scam?

Why are there still districts in odisha where railways and roadways haven't reached? And the areas where it have reached, Why isn't it serving the common people?

Why do most of the investment proposals not materializing in Odisha?

Do the companies investing in odisha employ Odia peope or they bring labour from neighbouring states?

Why do companies working in odisha aren't investing on local population?

 It's like the people of odisha doesn't matter, only resources of Odisha matter.

When will our civil society discuss these things? 

Why most of our civil society is disconnected from odisha?