SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kerala
STATE: Kerala
TITLE: Beware of this scam.
AUTHOR: babayaga_98
DATE: 2023-05-22
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kerala/comments/13ouu0z/beware_of_this_scam/
--- POST TEXT ---

My friend just lost 98,462 rupees. 

So the scam went like this.
FedEx (fake) called her and said that a package is being returned from Taiwan which has her ID linked. He said the package includes multiple passports and 600g weed. Now this being a narcotic issue he said he will connect to the narcotics beaurea in Mumbai. He then proceeded to connect narcotics via call and my friend gave her email id. They called her through Skype. They showed some real IDs of IPS officers but never showed their face on the video call. They showed some photos asking her if she could recognise anyone, who could potentially be the person who might have sent the package in her name. Now my friend was quite convinced that it was the real police and went on with this. 

Later they asked her to send the money in 2 transactions to verify her 2 bank accounts and they would return the same in 15 mins or else her account would be freezed. And she did it. They made sure she was on the call the whole time by asking her to show her face on the video call. She didn't think twice and gave the money. According to them she is under suscpicsion for commuting a grave offence. They made sure to take advantage of her fear and asked her to keep it confidential. So my best friend whom I discuss all kinds of scam with, didn't bother to ask me. I pointed out multiple scenarios in this scam where she should have doubted them, my friend who is smart, mentioned under the atmosphere they created, it was really hard for her to think it through.

I'm just sad that i couldn't help her. I made her realise the money is long gone. And she has accepted it. We have done everything from our part. Issued a petition in the police station. Made a complaint in the cyber portal. Contacted the bank. But since the transaction was done by her and not by any unsolicited means, the chances of getting the money back is slim to none.

It's the same scam that happened a day ago where a doctor from Delhi lost 4.5 crores.

Please be aware.