SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: Need help/advice/ insight (if any)
AUTHOR: let_juice
DATE: 2023-04-19
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/12ronnf/need_helpadvice_insight_if_any/
--- POST TEXT ---

Hi peeps! Just like other posts here, I too need help or advice from people in this subreddit. I am sorry in advance for any grammatical error.

So to the story, one of my friend call me one day and we were discussing general daily schedule and future plans, my friend told me that he has started a "business". I congratulated him and ask about his business, all he told me was that is a business development thing and "they" help other people to grow their business via an online platform.

Now till this time I didn't know much about his "business" but had a very little knowledge about business development, so I asked him if there is any other business opportunity then do let me know in future (not for this current "business" bit any other as well).

Days go by and he called me that "they" are thinking to expand their "business" (no name till now of the "business" btw), and if I want I can come to Advant Navis business park in sector 142 Noida. It was my weekoff so I didn't mind going there. When I reach there I asked him where is the office to which he replied there is no office as they do their "business"(sounds fishy 😕). 

Then he informed me that a business partner would contact me in a Starbucks their in Advant (why on earth Starbucks???), Now I got sceptical as a business meeting cannot happen in such place( sabko chilla chilla ke Anuradha wali scheme batani thodi hai😜). Then the said business partner told me that they deal with already stablished business in India and abroad and deals in 20+ business category, also they help the already stablished business grow by providing them more reach to customers.

Now when the "business meeting" end they told me that there is zero operational cost of this business and the only cost is setup cost which is approximately 2lakh(1.9 lakh) to be exact. I got to know that it is a scam but they also said that it can be reversed within 7 days (my friend has already paid it and I don't know why he is relying on them to make him some kind of millionaire 🤔).

My question to the peeps here is have you experienced this ?
What should I do here? ( I am not gonna give them a single penny)/, hell I don't even know there "business name"
Does anyone have an insight as to what is going on here? ( It sounds to me very similar to like Amway network marketing where they show you big dream)

Sorry for the long post, thankyou in advance for your precious time. Stay healthy and joyful always.

Tldr - a "business" I think is fraud and going on in Noida. Need help/advice of Delhi peeps here.