SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kerala
STATE: Kerala
TITLE: making a list of things we will regret not doing!!
AUTHOR: [deleted]
DATE: 2020-10-17
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kerala/comments/jcsjqq/making_a_list_of_things_we_will_regret_not_doing/
--- POST TEXT ---

i am planning to make a list of things we will regret not doing earlier in life. can you guys make the list longer.adding clarity to existing points would be also a big thing .the points can be related to any aspect of our life.

1.wear sunscreen: one of the only few science backed skin care item

2.have sufficient calcium intake(cuz “have a healthy diet” is not working): appreciate those knees!! bad knees are a common old age thing that can be prevented to an extent.

3.brush not once,but twice a day: this may be lame for some guys,but you know...

4.invest: not in MLMs and PONZI schemes,but in value stocks that are certain to rise in value

5.consider medications and therapy for mental illnesses:things are getting better for the community,if not for you.within time the stigma surrounding mental illnesses would go away and you dont want to regret not being brave enough.

6.have a technical expertise in any field (much better if you love the field)apart from arts,philosophy,music etc : i am not shitting on these things but it is practical to understand that arts and poetry are ‘relative’ subjects and may fail to make you money.

7.write good thank you notes : never begin with the ‘thank you’.

dont: thank you for the sweater.it keeps me warm

do: the sweater is keeping me warm.thank you for this!!

you could even become a drug dealer and be remembered as the one who wrote good thank you notes!!

8.travel more: fewer the people,the better!!

9.read less news(unless you are preparing for competitive exams like ias) and more books

10.dont refrain from doing things because they are illegal!!(if you know,you know)

11.if the occassion is special,wear a new dress( not joking!)

12.never ever underestimate the power of random people you meet(online or offline)

13.read daniel kahnemans book “ think fast and slow”( my gift for reading upto here)

EDIT: thanks for keeping to add to the list.its real pleasure to see the list getting longer.i am adding below the points from the comments as well as my own.help me make it even longer guys!!(more specific the point,the better)

14.keep a journal:will definetely smoothen your workflow.

15.part some time of the day for mentally stimulating activities: sudoku,rubiks etc etc

16.learn a musical instrument:you never know how good you are at it unless you learn it!!

17.tabulate your finances,no matter how small is your income flow:many budgeting templates are available on the net.pick one that suits you.

18.exercise and meditation:its not about hitting the gym,its being consistent no matter what.do a little research on various types and choose the best for you

19.learn a new language: will definetely boost your intellecto-meter.by the way,ancient greeks didnt have a word for colour blue and the talk around is that they saw less blue everywhere!!

20.floss your teeth: gonna make a big difference in oral health

21.treat your skin with moisturizers:a simple way to keep ageing at bay.

22.for the umpteenth time: have a healthy diet!!(keep in mind,’healthy diet’ is a relative term)

23.master one food item,along with a drink: time will prove it useful

24.clean your room: if its an hectic task,atleat make it organized then.

25.never try to sugarcoat toxic actions of anyone:family and friends are no exceptions!!

26.there is relief in being neutral about things,but take sides when needed.

27.get to know about different cultures:especially the culture of places you are planning to visit.

to say,tipping waiters is rude in japan,its rude in US when its under 10%!!.you dont wanna mess up by not knowing such things

28.not just plant trees,look after them!!

29.being a good netizen is no joke!!: report spams and frauds and if possible,try to create quality content for others.