SOURCE: Reddit - r/Uttarakhand
STATE: Uttarakhand
TITLE: Scam
AUTHOR: Ok_Confection8164
DATE: 2024-07-30
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Uttarakhand/comments/1efxub3/scam/
--- POST TEXT ---

So last week i went to dehradun for some work and it was only for a day so i booked a place which was under my budget.
The owner called me and asked to cancel the online booking and book offline. I agreed as he told me that he would give me a discounted price which is beneficial for both. 
My bus was supposed to arrive early so i asked for an early check in, the owner said yes it is possible i will give you early check in but you have to pay ₹500 advance. I agreed to this, as it was no harm in giving advance as he offered discounted price. 
I confirmed with him on call and in whatsapp as well that this is the only amount i have to pay (total amount 1400, advance 500) and he said yes. the argument for asking advance was bc he said he had to block the room for the previous night as he gets booking at night as well for half day, so i could check in early in the morning.
now the next day when i arrive the caretaker asks for extra 600. now when i called the owner , this malicious asshole says you have to pay 600 extra because i blocked the room previous night and i get bookings in the evening as well for 12 hours, i was like BROi just want to punch you so hard in the face. 
then we argued heftily that he never mentioned about paying 600 extra for blocking the room and early check in, but he says yes i did you didn’t heard dude just straight away blames me and says people like you do this cheating and all and i was so flabbergasted that what is wrong and then he sweared on his two year old child and i was like wow now i cant say anything 🫠 and then i agreed to give 500 extra because i didn’t want to ruin my morning any further. 
but i felt cheated a bit and this is when the property has a rating of 9 on booking.com and v good reviews, idk why is dehradun turning into a shithole with all these outside assholes it was like this before. 
property name- meera homes, uma manu &amp; associates building, near pine hall school , crossroads mall 
please stay alert , i couldn’t back out because i had given advance and its not easy to find another place early morning, even the mightiest may fall sometimes 😔