SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: Literally stuck in life. Need suggestions. 
AUTHOR: Your__Moms__Ex
DATE: 2024-08-05
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1ek3to2/literally_stuck_in_life_need_suggestions/
--- POST TEXT ---

TLDR: 22 year old, lost my well paying job. Seeking help and suggestions.

Hi, I am 22 year old guy/boy (whatever you wanna call), WAS earning 1.5L per month in a very good popular company, many people's dream company you can say(dont wanna name it for anonymity). Apart from profession, at the same time I also had a passion(don't wanna name it too, for the same reason because a lot of people i know are on here, they might have even known who I am at this point) that I really really wanted to pursue in my life. 

So once when I got the chance, I spent all of the money I saved almost 8L to achieve it, because I know I had the talent, determination and I have put in lot of effort for it. So I went for it, thinking I will succeed and earn more if I spend this one time.

But back in my office they were not supportive of it and asked me to choose any one to move forward in life. After a week of thinking and also consulting with the person who tried to get me into my passion, my dumbass choose PASSION

RESIGNED my job even after my manager, HR, and a lot of people asking me not to do it. I DID IT.

The person who got me into the passion, got me 3 to 4 works in it, got almost 50K from it in 1 month. Thinking this is just the beginning and I can get more later in future, I was happy about it. As you expected, it didn't last long.

Got to know it was a scam, when they tried to get more and more money from me just because i already gave them more than 8L, so they think they can milk more from me, saying, give this time, you will get more work and all other shit. I told them that I have already gave whatever I have, now i need to earn from this for my survival. And that's it, after that, no contact of them, because they got to know, I can't give anything more to them.

Tried to reach out to them, they didn't block me, but ghost me like hell. I tried to call them, message them, but only thing they say were HI after 1 month and disappear without any reply when I ask them more even while they are online.

So I don't wanna waste my time on them, because it's already been more than 6 months and i am literally in debt to 4 or 5 people right now. I got some money from them for my rent(I don't stay with my parents, and I don't even wanna reach out to them for specific reasons, because i had a fight with them and have been staying alone for 4 years, they dont know what i am doing and nothing about me), food and other expenses. I got a few more works because of the links i made in those 3 to 4 works before. But I didn't earn anything.

I left my house because i cant pay the rent anymore, with just 1 bag of clothes, and kept all my other stuffs at my friends house asking permission from his parents for a few weeks or months or i don't know when.

I am literally homeless, jobless, hungry, have been living in railway station for more than 10 days, just to charge my phone and trying to get any links for further work using instagram and stuffs.

At this situation I don't even know what to do in my life, I am trying to look for a remote work, so that I can continue doing my passion, you can think, what kind of dumb he is again going behind the same shit, but I know these people would still be in the same industry and I want to achieve, be the best in it, and prove them that I am better than anyone else in it, because I know I am and got the talent also, but the only thing stopping me, is money to travel and attend those works. I need to earn something, so that I can stay somewhere, eat something and lead a normal life.

I need some suggestions on where I can get some remote work, so that I can earn atleast 50k. I know you all are gonna jump on me saying there are people who work day and night for just 8 to 10k and you want 50k for a remote work. I understand you all, even I think the same, but that 10k is only enough for rent, nowadays we won't even get a 10x10 room for that money, but apart from that I need to travel to different places for my passion. So that's the reason I ask for remote work which pays me this much. 

Please understand my situation and get me links for a good paying job,and give me some life lessons for what I can do now, scold me if you want. I deserve that, maybe I think I did this all just because there isn't a person to scold me in life, Soooo... comments are open. Don't even tell me about reaching out to my parents, because it's not even the last option on what I would do, because I would never do it, it would be like I left them when I had money and all, and going to them when I need their help, I don't want that tag on my life, so please don't say about reaching out to my parents, anything other than that is totally fine. I'd rather die than to asking them out for help 

Speaking of dying, YES, I even thought of killing myself too at some point, but I don't wanna do it because I have got money from 5 people and I don't wanna go away with that tag on my name. And since I don't have a constant job, the bank is not even giving loan to me. If someone can help me out with that money, or get me any links to get some loan which I can pay back little by little in the following months, would be a great help for me.