SOURCE: Reddit - r/Delhi
STATE: Delhi
TITLE: is this a new scam ??
AUTHOR: orphan_creater
DATE: 2024-08-31
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/delhi/comments/1f5gjo0/is_this_a_new_scam/
--- POST TEXT ---

9:40 AM, I recieved a call from an unknown number (Truecaller says "মদনী", Assam)

Robot generated voice informs me, "hey this is notification from Telecom Regulatory Authority of India, due to abnormal activities from your mobile number, all the services will be suspended today" then asks me to press 1 for more information and 0 to talk to customer service.

I pressed 0, and got connected to Customer Service Representative.

He introduces himself as Arvind Kumar from Telecom Bureau, he asked my name (my fault, I provided him my full legal name) and told me that a number registered with your credentials has been reported by the *Mumbai Crime Branch* for scanning, gambling, illegal trading and fraud, and my all services related to all mobile numbers linked with my aadhar will be suspended under 2 HOURS. (by 11:40 AM)

he then provided me that number reported by Crime Branch (which was not related to me), I told him I do not have this number registered with my credentials as per my knowledge.

he told me that it may also happen if i have shared my credentials like photo of Aadhar card to other person (which may happen because me and my friend share each other aadhars and marksheets for filling up govt. exams forms).

I asked him how can I unlink that number and stop my number from suspension. he answered "services will resume after proving yourself not guilty and getting the case dismissed"

unfortunately call gets disconnected due to fluctuations in my WIFI (and we didn't reach the to the part where he asks money for getting the case dismissed). when i called him back, it says wrong number.

I then investigated this issue and talked to jio customer care, they replied it might be scam and if it suspends then you can restart it at any Jio Outlet, there's no need of proving myself not guilty.

I asked my friend and he assured me that he didn't buy any Sim card with my credentials.

I called Mumbai Crime Branch to investigate further, but they replied, "Whatever you've said to me, write it down on a application and file it in your nearest police station".

- I don't know if this is scam or not, but if my services do not get suspended before 11:40 AM, it may be a scam. (4 minutes remaining)

Anyone experienced this?