SOURCE: Reddit - r/Kerala
STATE: Kerala
TITLE: Total 4U Sabarinath, 19 year old boy who pulled off a 200 crore scam in kerala
AUTHOR: village_aapiser
DATE: 2023-01-13
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Kerala/comments/10axyd0/total_4u_sabarinath_19_year_old_boy_who_pulled/
--- POST TEXT ---

I don't know how many remembers this guy. Tvm natives who are currently in their 30s must know him. This guy managed to full off a 200 crore investment scam at the age of just 19 by offering 30% return to investors. He had 2 homes, 22 cars and a lot of diamonds under him possession when he was arrested back in 2008. He absconded after getting a bail in 2011 and was a fugitive for 3 years and surrendered in the court on 2014.

He was sentenced for 20 years in prison and 8.5 crore in fine. There was accusations that investigation officer had a lethargic approach towards the case which helped sarbari win most of the cases out of the 34 cases charged against him.

There was many unknown big fishes behind him, if you have any informations about sabarinath and total 4 U, it will be appreciated. This guy managed to reduce the fine to just 8.5 cr and a 20 year sentence. There was a lot of black money involved, so many of the investors didn't bother complaining it seems. There was even suspicions of some big names in the movie industry had investments in his firm.

His bad days started with investing money to produce keerthichakra staring mohanlal, he was one of the silent partners in that movie. Indian military is strict about investigating any content made about them. So in such a routine investigation about the movie the military intelligence found that this guy was a scammer. They filed their report to ed and kerala police which ended in his arrest. 

A web series story material. Isn't it.

I would like to know what this guy did for the 3 years when he was a fugitive. Even kerala police doesn't seem to have any idea. What did he do with all the unaccounted money? I have also heard rumors that he was friends with binish kodeyeri and with kodiyeri's influence the investigation was manipulated.

Any leads about this case is much appreciated..

Nb:- he pulled off another scam while he was on bail in 2021. Duped 10 college students into investing 75 lakhs to join as his partners in the imaginary juice shop franchise he had in tamilnadu.